BEIJING, Dec. 4 (Xinhua) -- A spokesperson for China's Foreign Ministry on Friday slammed the United States' new visa rules for members of the Communist Party of China (CPC), and said that several U.S. politicians and their anti-China rhetoric were "ridiculous" and "pathetic."
Spokesperson Hua Chunying made the remarks at a daily news briefing when asked to comment on the new visa rules from the United States, which limit the duration of travel visas for CPC members and their immediate families.
As a diplomat, one needs to have a good understanding of the conditions of their own country, understand the conditions of other countries they are dealing with, and have some basic professional knowledge, Hua said. "They should at least uphold an attitude of equality and mutual respect."
She noted that since the day China and the United States established diplomatic relations, the United States has been well aware that China is a socialist country under the leadership of the CPC. China-U.S. relations are based on the consensus that both sides recognize and respect the differences in their social systems.
Under the joint efforts of the two countries and their peoples, bilateral ties had achieved significant development over the past 40-plus years, which had brought tremendous benefits to the two peoples and contributed to solving global challenges and maintaining world peace, stability and development, said Hua.
"However, for some time, we have been seeing several U.S. politicians arbitrarily demonizing China, maliciously attacking the CPC, and attempting to sever the relationship between the CPC and the Chinese people," Hua said, adding that their purpose was to politicize and weaponize the ideological differences between the two countries to satisfy selfish interests.
"Every time these U.S. politicians attack or defame the CPC, the Chinese people become more united and more patriotic, and more sincerely support the leadership of the CPC," said the spokesperson.
She stressed that the behavior of the U.S. side was clearly going against the trend of history, did not meet the aspirations of the two peoples for friendly exchanges, and will deeply damage the interests of the United States itself. Enditem