WASHINGTON, Feb. 6 (Xinhua) -- Artists from prominent Chinese conservatories of music and their U.S. partners on Saturday presented a virtual concert to celebrate the upcoming Spring Festival which marks a new start in life.
"Sounds of Spring -- China-U.S. Musicians Virtual Concert 2021," which started to stream on Facebook and YouTube at 8:00 p.m. EST on Saturday (0100 GMT on Sunday), featured guest artist, famous Chinese pianist Lang Lang, as well as students and faculty from a dozen Chinese and U.S. music colleges and universities.
The about 100-minute concert was the first of a series of online programs hosted by the Chinese embassy in the U.S. to mark the Chinese New Year, which falls on Feb. 12.
"Spring is the beginning of a year. In the Chinese zodiac, 2021 is the year of the Ox, which symbolises overcoming difficulties and achieving prosperity," said Chinese Ambassador to the United States Cui Tiankai at the opening ceremony of the concert.
He said the past year was "truly extraordinary" with mankind faced with the common challenges of combating COVID-19, restoring global growth and protecting livelihood.
"Only by joining our hands for shared responses can we create a better future," said Cui.
"I am looking forward to the wonderful performance of our young artists, and hope that the fascinating music presented by them will bring warmth, kindle hopes and kick off a beautiful spring for the people of our two countries," he said.
"The charm of art is the light through the wintry night and a bridge connecting countries, ethnicities, cultures and generations. It embodies people's love of life and yearning for a better future," said the ambassador.
"Great music knows no borders, no boundaries, no language barriers, and carries the power to bring us together with love and compassion," said professor of Manhattan School of Music David Geber, who participated in cello ensemble Sarabande composed by Johann Sebastian Bach, in his video message.
"It speaks to our united humanity, emotions, aspirations, and needs for personal expression. It is entirely possible it is now more important than any earlier point in history of music," he said.
The culmination of the concert was "Cloud Art Music -- WE" presented by Central Conservatory of Music and performed by a cloud choir which groups 212 musicians from world major orchestras and 302 professors and students from world partner conservatories.
The symphonic chorus, created by professor Li Xiaobing of Central Conservatory of Music, pays tribute to the courage and resilience of people and countries in their fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.
The concert is a co-production by the Central Conservatory of Music, Shanghai Conservatory of Music, Tianjin Conservatory of Music, Wuhan Conservatory of Music, Bard College Conservatory of Music, Berklee College of Music, Eastman School of Music of University of Rochester, Manhattan School of Music, New York University, Yale School of Music, Tianjin Juilliard School, and Shanghai Orchestra Academy. Enditem