by Xinhua writer Zhang Jing
TOKYO, April 17 (Xinhua) -- The joint statement released by Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and U.S. President Joe Biden on Friday pointed the fingers at issues concerning China's internal affairs and core interests, sending a negative signal that threatens peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region.
A U.S.-Japan alliance that the two leaders aim to build up against China is based on an obsolete Cold War mentality and doomed to fail.
Acting solely out of self interest, Biden and Suga made an unacceptable statement about China after a meeting in Washington, showing their miscalculations over China, which contradict the trend of the times.
First of all, the U.S.-Japan alliance targeting China is wrong by showing intentions to meddle in China's internal affairs. China has repeatedly made it clear that the issues concerning the Taiwan Strait, Hong Kong and Xinjiang are solely China's domestic affairs and allow no foreign interference.
Secondly, both the United States and Japan wrongly support Japan's claim on the Diaoyu Islands and maintain a deterrence on the Taiwan Strait and South China Sea against China. The Diaoyu Islands and Taiwan are inseparable parts of China, and thanks to the joint efforts of China and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the South China Sea has remained a place of peace and stability for years. The so-called U.S.-Japan common concerns are totally groundless and undeserving.
The United States and Japan should keep in mind that any harm to the integrity of China's territory will face strong backlash from China. What's more, the stability in the South China Sea is being safeguarded by all peace-loving countries in the region.
Furthermore, the U.S.-Japan alliance is wrong in smearing China by spreading rumors and disinformation about the human rights situation in Hong Kong and Xinjiang. The measures the Chinese government has taken in the two regions have boosted local stability and prosperity, and thus benefited local people, including Uygurs in Xinjiang.
However, the United States and Japan have turned a blind eye to the truth and facts, trying hard to pressure China over such trumped-up charges for their own geopolitical gains.
Also, the U.S.-Japan alliance is misjudging the international situation. In the age of globalization, the two governments still appear stuck in an outdated Cold-War mentality. Their audacious attempt to incite confrontation and form an anti-China bloc runs counter to the worldwide aspiration for peace, development and cooperation.
China, a staunch force to uphold peace in the region and the world, pursues friendship and partnership with its neighbors and seeks to bring amity, security and common prosperity to the region.
As regards the normal development of U.S.-Japan relations, China has no intention to comment on it, but the United States and Japan should not underestimate China's determination and resolve to safeguard its national sovereignty, security and development interests. Enditem