An animation program about Chinese Lunar New Year traditions is seen on Nasdaq's outdoor displays in Times Square, New York, Feb. 11, 2021. The U.S. stock exchange Nasdaq celebrated the Chinese Lunar New Year by holding a virtual closing bell ceremony on Thursday afternoon. (Xinhua/Wang Ying)
NEW YORK, Feb. 11 (Xinhua) -- The U.S. stock exchange Nasdaq celebrated the Chinese Lunar New Year by holding a virtual closing bell ceremony on Thursday afternoon.
Chinese Consul General in New York Huang Ping rang the closing bell for Nasdaq, which has over 175 Chinese companies listed.
"We are very excited that you could all join us right here from the Crossroads of the World in Times Square, New York, as we get set to ring this afternoon's closing bell in celebration of Chinese New Year, the Year of the Ox," said Bob McCooey, chairman of Asia Pacific, Nasdaq.
Every cloud has a silver lining, even though the world was hit hard by the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, said Huang.
"Facing extreme challenges and difficulties, the Nasdaq Composite index hit an all-time high. The acceleration of production and distribution of vaccines brings hope to people around the world," said Huang.
In the Year of the Ox, China is prepared to join forces with the United States and other countries to bring the pandemic under control and to promote economic recovery, Huang said.
"So let's work together with the perseverance, bravery, and strength like the Ox to create a big bull market for the wellbeing of humanity, and to build a community with a shared future for mankind," said Huang.
"Nasdaq's commitment to China remains very strong. We are extremely proud to be the home for over 175 Chinese companies," said McCooey.
The innovative and iconic companies from China embody the entrepreneurial spirit that will help our two great nations continue to grow, said McCooey.
The bell ringing ceremony was broadcasted on Nasdaq's outdoor displays in Times Square.
Nasdaq also played an animation program on Thursday about Chinese Lunar New Year traditions on its outdoor displays.
The Chinese Lunar New Year, or Spring Festival, is the most important holiday for Chinese around the world. This year's Spring Festival falls on Feb. 12, which marks the beginning of the Year of the Ox.