by Yosley Carrero
HAVANA, July 4 (Xinhua) -- Fernando Gelavert, who drives an electric street sweeper in Cuba, has got prepared to clear streets and squares of debris as the tropical storm Elsa is nearing the country.
The 63-year-old used to remove plastic materials, leaves, and solid waste from the pavement and sidewalks in the capital Havana with a broom and a dustpan, but his daily routine was changed one year ago thanks to a Chinese donation including street cleaning equipment and garbage trucks.
"The Chinese machines and trucks will contribute a lot to keeping Havana clean once the storm batters this city. Waste collectors play a key role nowadays," he told Xinhua recently.
At present, waste collectors in the Cuban capital, home to 2 million inhabitants, continue to monitor the path of the tropical storm Elsa on its way to Florida Keys.
Among them is David Betancourt, a 20-year-old truck driver, who has been working for the local garbage collection company Aurora over the past two years.
"With the Chinese equipment, we will be able to clean the city more efficiently," he said. "For instance, an electric sweeping machine can do the work of 10 men. That is not a trivial matter."
The branch of Aurora company in the Plaza de la Revolucion district has made preparations to clean up if Havana is hit by heavy rains and gusty winds in the coming days.
Nowadays, Cuba is facing the highest rates of COVID-19 infections in the country, while the United States has intensified economic, commercial and financial embargo against the island. The circumstance highlighted the importance of the vehicles and machines donated by China.
Gelavert, who defines himself as a "frontline worker," generally starts his day very early to clean up the metropolitan area, as the local government in Havana strives to slow the spread of the coronavirus in the region.
Carmen Rosa Aguilera, senior official at Aurora company, said that the Chinese trucks and electric sweeping machines have demonstrated high-quality standards and adaptability to the Cuban context.
"The Chinese equipment transports nearly 10 percent of solid waste generated in Plaza de la Revolucion," she said. "It has been very important during the sanitary emergency."
Meanwhile, Havana residents have been instructed to reinforce hygiene standards at home and public space.
"I think the Chinese sweeping machines and trucks are doing their part. Waste collection services are essential. We deserve a beautiful city and China is giving us a helping hand," Luis Ramirez, a 40-year-old local resident, told Xinhua while putting home garbage in a waste container. Enditem