by Julia Pierrepont III, Gao Shan
LAS VEGAS, Jan. 6 (Xinhua) -- Unlike some other large tech companies and manufacturers who opted to give CES 2022 a miss in-person this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Chinese consumer electronics and appliance manufacturer, Hisense, showed up firing on all cylinders.
"CES is a very important high-profile world stage for us to make our brand statement heard," said Zhou Mengya, a marketing manager of Hisense. "We face the threat of COVID every day, but we are a strong team and knew we could approach CES with confidence."
The Hisense exhibition area -- one of the largest at the expo kicked off in Las Vegas on Wednesday -- is situated in the Central Hall and stands shoulder-to-shoulder with giants like Sony, Bosch, Samsung and TCL. It was filled with spectators attracted by their huge ULED and LED screens filled with lifelike, eye-catching images flashing across their surfaces.
Hisense, touted as one of the fastest growing brands in America, is a Chinese global television manufacturing company that has grown to become the fifth largest TV retailer in the United States.
"Technology can change lives. Hisense is always dedicated to delivering high performing, high-quality products that exceed consumers' expectations," said Douglas Kern, senior director of marketing for Hisense USA, to the press during the trade show.
Their display technology runs the gamut from residential TVs to commercial and medical displays and more. For home viewers, Hisense promises a TV viewing experience that is "Big. Bold. Beautiful."
The company showcased its next-gen ULED 8K Mini-LED series and the world's first 8K resolution laser display technology solution to CES this year. Hisense's 85U9H 8K TV has been recognized at the expo as a CES 2022 Innovation Award Honoree.
James B., an American appliance vendor looking for high-end TV systems to integrate into newly constructed, luxury homes in Arizona for retirees, likes what he saw at the Hisense exhibition area on Wednesday.
"Hisense always has nice displays at CES," he told Xinhua. "The laser TV they've been talking about for the last two or three years is finally coming to market ... it is a triple laser technology and the wider color gamut that you really want."
Hisense has also teamed up with Roku to offer a vast library of content on their signature screens and their products work with Alexa, Android's Hey Google.
Due to COVID-19, getting to Vegas this year was filled with a whole new set of challenges, explained Zhou. Though they have a U.S. headquarters in Suwanee, Georgia, they needed to bring in an expert on their medical display technology from one of their overseas operations to properly introduce it to the U.S. market.
"That was a challenge," laughed Zhou, "but luckily it turned out fine, thanks for our global team."
The company also offers a smart kitchen line up of fully integrated and linked appliances, called Connect Life, which includes smart refrigerators, freezers, dishwashers and beverage/wine coolers, all controlled by a touchscreen TV.
"The TV controls everything," explained Zhou to Xinhua. "We use our big advantage of being a TV company for more than 50 years to use the TV as the central, convenient piece of our smart home control system."
"It was important for us as a Chinese brand to have a strong presence here at CES," she said, explaining why they made a point to show up in force in the high profile Central Hall during the pandemic.
She feels Chinese companies used to be much smaller companies in supporting roles in the trade show, but many, like Hisense, have grown into innovative global brands in their own right and have taken their rightful place in the Central Hall at CES. ■