Candy Nip (1st R), director of the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office, New York, attends the opening ceremony of an exhibition on Hong Kong's architecture in New York, the United States, on Oct. 11, 2022. An exhibition to showcase Hong Kong architects' expertise, style and unique insight is being held in New York City. Named "Beyond Territories - Made Make Making," the exhibition starting Tuesday features miniatures of buildings and audio-visual installations for visitors to explore and have interactions. (Xinhua/Wang Ying)
NEW YORK, Oct. 12 (Xinhua) -- An exhibition to showcase Hong Kong architects' expertise, style and unique insight is being held in New York City.
Named "Beyond Territories - Made Make Making," the exhibition starting Tuesday features miniatures of buildings and audio-visual installations for visitors to explore and have interactions.
With the year 2022 marking the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the exhibition presents the works of more than 25 local and international firms.
"Hong Kong's architecture embodies the city's rich culture and cosmopolitan character. The innovative displays in the three core zones of the exhibition fully epitomize the timelessness and timeliness of the architectural achievements of Hong Kong in the past quarter-century," said Candy Nip, director of the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office, New York.
"Street Scene Dream," an installation that creates the illusion of life through animation, features inspiration that was obtained from Hong Kong's long coastline, and the time-lapse videos in this artwork show what appears on street billboards at different times in the city.
The team behind "Street Scene Dream" is trying to give an artistic representation of the emotional and historical connection to residential constructions and street signs in Hong Kong, said Paul Shepherd, who is one of the masterminds of the installation.
The Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office in New York said it will organize a two-day symposium on urban design and sustainable architecture in partnership with the American Institute of Architects New York.
Located at the Ideal Glass Studios in Manhattan, the exhibition will remain open to the public until Oct. 25. Earlier, the exhibition had been staged in Beijing and Hangzhou cities, with the fourth and the last leg of the exhibition to be unveiled in Hong Kong in December.
The exhibition in New York is organized by the Hong Kong Institute of Architects with the support of Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office, New York. ■
 
People visit an exhibition on Hong Kong's architecture in New York, the United States, on Oct. 11, 2022. An exhibition to showcase Hong Kong architects' expertise, style and unique insight is being held in New York City. Named "Beyond Territories - Made Make Making," the exhibition starting Tuesday features miniatures of buildings and audio-visual installations for visitors to explore and have interactions. (Xinhua/Wang Ying)
People visit an exhibition on Hong Kong's architecture in New York, the United States, on Oct. 11, 2022. An exhibition to showcase Hong Kong architects' expertise, style and unique insight is being held in New York City. Named "Beyond Territories - Made Make Making," the exhibition starting Tuesday features miniatures of buildings and audio-visual installations for visitors to explore and have interactions. (Xinhua/Wang Ying)
People visit an exhibition on Hong Kong's architecture in New York, the United States, on Oct. 11, 2022. An exhibition to showcase Hong Kong architects' expertise, style and unique insight is being held in New York City. Named "Beyond Territories - Made Make Making," the exhibition starting Tuesday features miniatures of buildings and audio-visual installations for visitors to explore and have interactions. (Xinhua/Wang Ying)