BEIJING, June 13 (Xinhua) -- The U.S. government has doubled down on its efforts to sanction Chinese companies, basing its actions on groundless accusations of China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and completely ignoring the welfare of the people in the region.
Under the pretext of "human rights abuses," the United States added two more Chinese companies to its sanction list last week. Previously, the list had included multiple Chinese firms.
The U.S. move of economic coercion is aimed at destabilizing Xinjiang by depriving people of all ethnic groups in the region of their rights to work and development, in an attempt to cause unemployment, poverty and social unrest, and even the resurgence of terrorism. It exposes the U.S. attempts to use Xinjiang to contain China's development.
The United States does not genuinely care about human rights at all. Rather, human rights allegations are part of its toolbox to justify interfering in other countries' internal affairs. It has been trying every type of vile method, including fabricating lies such as forced labor to smear Xinjiang and imposing sanctions against local companies, thereby sabotaging the region's hard-won good circumstances.
The Australian Alert Service, a weekly publication of the Australian Citizens Party, published in 2021 an eight-article series, disclosing with details how some Western countries, including the United States, have supported Xinjiang separatist and terrorist activities for geopolitical purposes. For example, the U.S.-based National Endowment for Democracy has funneled millions of dollars since 2004 to so-called "East Turkistan" forces including the so-called "World Uyghur Congress," leading to rapid spread of extremist ideologies in Xinjiang and the inflow of terrorists.
Instead of "protecting human rights," the U.S. sanctions are actually abusing human rights, and such moves are thoroughly hypocritical.
China regards the rights to subsistence and development as the primary and basic human rights, and believes that living a life of contentment is the ultimate human right. People of different ethnic groups in Xinjiang have bid farewell to absolute poverty and are enjoying a moderately prosperous life in all respects.
To see is to believe. Recently, a 34-member delegation of diplomats and officials from the Arab League and its Secretariat visited Xinjiang and they were impressed by the region's development and the lives of local people.
Other delegations to the region in recent years shared the same impressions, in contrast to the negative reports found in Western media and lies of some politicians.
Xinjiang has entered its best period in history with social harmony and stability, and a happy, peaceful life for local people. Over the past 60-plus years, the region's average life expectancy has increased from 30 to 74.7 years. Human rights within the region are well protected and developed. This is the truth of Xinjiang.
If only certain American politicians could visit Xinjiang like their foreign peers, they would become ashamed of their own ignorance and stubbornness. But perhaps they do not want to visit the region, because they do not want their lies to be shattered by the hard facts.
What is certain is that the U.S. sanctions against Xinjiang enterprises will fail to achieve its goal of creating turmoil in the region, while the U.S. attempt to contain China's development is doomed to fall short. ■