UNITED NATIONS, July 7 (Xinhua) -- China is an important player in multilateralism with visionary initiatives to promote world peace and development, said Nicaraguan Foreign Minister Denis Moncada.
The strong relationship that China has with the world and with the United Nations is one of friendship and of unity, he told Xinhua in a recent interview at the UN headquarters.
China is "a visionary and transcendental actor in multilateralism and multipolarity," which can be seen in its solidarity, friendship and all kinds of actions with different countries, he said.
Moncada said the exchanges between China and the world in scientific and technological, commercial, cultural and other fields are "for peace, security and stability of humanity."
The Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative proposed by China are "highly positive," said the minister.
"All these initiatives are transcendental in nature to the world," he said. "They relate to development and growth with a humanistic vision."
Development of China is "admirable and extraordinary," said Moncada, pointing to China's achievements including poverty eradication and technological advances.
"Nicaragua and the world need to learn from the Chinese experience in modernizing," he said, noting that everything being shared with China is a win-win situation.
It is extraordinary that all of China's exchanges with the world are within the framework of respect, Moncada said.
Cooperation between Nicaragua and China keeps growing since the resumption of diplomatic relations, benefiting Nicaragua in the construction of housing, commercial exchanges and other areas, he said.
"In a notable and very visible way," China is contributing to the development of Nicaragua, said Moncada.
The China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative opens the expectations in Latin America and in Nicaragua for opportunities in infrastructure, education, technology and other areas, he said. "We see a lot of possibilities in the near future for Nicaragua." ■