by Xinhua writers Tan Jingjing, Huang Heng, Gao Shan
LAS VEGAS, Sept. 11 (Xinhua) -- Chinese exhibitors always bring the latest technology to North America's leading clean energy expo, the expo's organizer told Xinhua.
"RE+ 2023," which kicked off on Monday and runs to Thursday at the Venetian Convention and Expo Center and Caesars Forum Convention Center in Las Vegas, brings together clean energy industry experts, leaders and professionals across the United States and overseas to share best practices and expand business prospects.
Over 300 Chinese companies are participating in the expo, which will present the latest in the smart energy industry, ranging from solar, energy storage, hydrogen, to EV infrastructure, microgrids, wind and more, according to "RE+ Events," the expo organizer.
"Our Chinese exhibitors always bring the latest technology to the show floor and we're looking forward to seeing what they display this year," the organizer told Xinhua in an email interview ahead of the expo.
"The goal of the event is to bring the clean energy industry together and really highlight how all aspects of renewable energy can work together to create a cleaner future," the organizer told Xinhua.
There are a number of exciting features on the show floor at "RE+ 2023," including the Horizon Hydrogen Grand Prix, PowerUp Race for Resilience, American Made Program, and the Grid Edge Theater, according to the organizer.
A series of education and tech sessions will be held on the sidelines of the expo, offering a platform for the technical and scientific communities to present and share innovative research in the solar, storage, and smart energy industries, focusing on advancements in the pre-commercialization to adoption phases.
Developed by leading solar energy organizations of the United States, the Smart Electric Power Alliance and the Solar Energy Industries Association, "RE+" reflects an ongoing entrepreneurial approach to renewing best practices across the clean energy landscape as the marketplace evolves.
This year's expo draws over 30,000 attendees and 1,300 exhibitors around the globe, the organizer told Xinhua. ■