BEIJING, Dec. 6 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Wednesday called for the sound, steady and sustained development of China-U.S. relations during a phone conversation with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken at the latter's request.
Blinken thanked Wang for visiting the U.S. Embassy in China to mourn former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger.
Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, said Dr. Kissinger has always advocated that China and the United States, two major countries, should respect each other, progress together and fulfill their due international responsibilities.
Dr. Kissinger has repeatedly stressed that the United States should fully understand the importance of the Taiwan question to China, Wang said, adding that the diplomatic legacy left by him is worth being carried forward and developed by future generations.
President Xi Jinping and President Joe Biden had a successful meeting in San Francisco and came up with a future-oriented "San Francisco vision," which is of milestone significance, Wang said.
He said the current important task of the two sides is to continue the positive effects of the San Francisco summit, deliver on the consensus reached by the two heads of state, and consolidate the momentum of stability in China-U.S. relations.
This is in the common interests of China and the United States, and also the common responsibility of the two major countries, Wang said.
Wang once again stressed China's solemn position on the Taiwan question, urging the United States not to interfere in China's internal affairs, not to support and connive with any forces of "Taiwan independence."
The two sides exchanged views on the Palestine-Israel conflict and agreed to maintain communication on the situation in the Middle East.
Wang said it is urgent to reach a ceasefire between the two sides as soon as possible.
At the crossroads of war and peace, major countries, in particular, should adhere to equity and justice, uphold objectivity and impartiality, display calmness and rationality, make an all-out effort to de-escalate the situation, and prevent a larger humanitarian disaster, he said.
Any solution to the current crisis in Gaza must not deviate from the two-state solution, and any arrangement concerning the future of Palestine must reflect the will of the Palestinian people, Wang said.
China holds that the core of the solution is to respect Palestine's right to statehood and self-determination, and embody the principle of "Palestinian-owned, Palestinian-led and Palestinian-ruled," he said, adding that China is ready to work with all parties to this end.
Blinken briefed Wang on his recent visit to the Middle East and the U.S. views on the development of the situation, agreeing that the two-state solution should be implemented. ■