SACRAMENTO, United States, Aug. 4 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese province of Hainan and the U.S. state of California announced a new initiative on Thursday to accelerate joint actions against the climate change.
The two sides signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in Sacramento, California, aiming to establish a flexible framework to collaborate on protecting environment, combating climate change and advancing clean energy development.
The MOU, signed by Vice Governor of Hainan Chen Huaiyu and Secretary of the California State Transportation Agency Toks Omishakin, outlined a few key areas of cooperation, including climate action and air quality, clean transportation, clean energy and clean technologies, and nature-based climate solutions.
The two sides are also expected to conduct special activities, such as providing mutual advice on climate policies and programs, sharing information and experiences, and organizing symposia, workshops and annual meetings, according to the MOU.
California Governor Gavin Newsom met with the Hainan delegation and witnessed the signing of the MOU. Zhang Jianmin, Consul General of China in San Francisco also attended the event.
"We're an ocean apart but share the same goals -- leaving this planet better off for our kids and grandkids," said Newsom in a statement.
"Working together with global partners like the province of Hainan, we stand a chance to address the existential crisis of climate change by cutting pollution and transitioning to clean energy," said Newsom.
Chen said that "we're glad to partner with California as we both take meaningful steps to fight the global climate crisis. We share the desire to raise the bar for climate solutions like cleaning our air, advancing zero-emission vehicles, and embracing clean energy."
Following the signing ceremony, the two sides convened a roundtable to discuss shared climate priorities and the areas of cooperation outlined in the MOU.
Chen also expressed his hope that the MOU would help encourage research cooperation between universities, promote exchanges between trade groups, and stimulate more investment in renewable energy. ■