LOS ANGELES, Nov. 4 (Xinhua) -- Think Like A Dog, the China-U.S. co-produced film, hit the big screen on Saturday at the ongoing 19th Chinese American Film Festival and the Chinese American Television Festival in Los Angeles.
Nearly 200 families watched the film at an Alhambra theater in Los Angeles County and celebrated the "Happy Family Day" held on the sidelines of the festivals.
The film, which won the award for Best China-U.S. Co-Production Film, follows the adventures of a Chinese boy named Xiaoxiao and his American friend Oliver. When Oliver discovers a way to hear his dog's thoughts, he joins forces with his furry friend to find a way to keep their family together.
Addressing the event, U.S. Congresswoman Judy Chu said the movie is a "unique blend" of Chinese and American cultures, appealing to a global audience.
The film and TV festivals kicked off in Los Angeles on Wednesday evening, with over 500 film and television entries received. A total of 10 films won the Golden Angel Award at the event.
James Su, chairman of EDI Media Inc., said over the years, the festivals have served as a platform to connect Chinese and American filmmakers, resulting in numerous co-production projects.
He vowed to continue promoting friendship and mutual understanding between the two countries and peoples through enhanced exchanges and cooperation in the film and television industries.
Linshu Zhang, executive producer of Think Like A Dog, and founder of M-Star International Culture & Media Co., Ltd, said the movie brings the essence of the Chinese family culture to the global stage with an emphasis on the warmth of family. It conveys the importance of communication.
Founded in 2005 by EDI Media Inc., the annual festivals are usually held in Los Angeles every November.
The Los Angeles County Office has named November as the "Chinese American Film Festival and Chinese American Television Festival Month."
A series of panels were held during the festivals, bringing together professionals in the Chinese and American film and television industries to share their experiences and discuss cooperation. ■