Matias Tarnopolsky, president and CEO of the Philadelphia Orchestra and Ensemble Arts, speaks during an interview with Xinhua in Philadelphia, the United States, on Oct. 24, 2024. (Xinhua/Li Rui)
by Xinhua writer Yang Shilong
PHILADELPHIA, the United States, Oct. 26 (Xinhua) -- The Philadelphia Orchestra is embarking on a historic tour of China on Sunday, with stops in Beijing and several other Chinese cities, rekindling a bond established over 50 years ago.
 
UNIQUE CHINA TIES
"The Philadelphia Orchestra's relationship with China is unique," said Matias Tarnopolsky, president and CEO of the Philadelphia Orchestra and Ensemble Arts, in an interview with Xinhua on Thursday.
"The Philadelphia Orchestra was the first American orchestra to visit China in 1973 ... it predates actual diplomatic relations between our two countries by six years," he said.
He noted that the orchestra has developed multi-generational connections with the Chinese people.
"Very often, I hear stories from people around my age who tell me, 'My parents were at that concert in 1973, and we remember it to this day,'" he said.
The orchestra is set to perform four shows at the National Centre for the Performing Arts in Beijing, along with one show each in Chengdu and Tianjin, and two shows in Haikou, the capital of Hainan province.
Beyond the concert hall, the orchestra has built a deep connection with communities across China. Since 1973, the orchestra has visited schools, universities, hospitals, and civic centers, engaging with young Chinese musicians through various associations, Tarnopolsky said.
"Our musicians travel to China separately from the orchestra as well," he added. "Most recently, a year ago, we were there with a group of musicians who celebrated 50 years of relationship with the people of China, performing chamber music, teaching and engaging" in other crucial activities.
He said the orchestra's tour in Chengdu this year will include a side-by-side concert with the Chengdu Symphony Orchestra.
 
INSPIRING FUTURE GENERATIONS
Tarnopolsky expressed a sense of mission as a cultural ambassador, a role affirmed by letters from U.S. President Joe Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping, all encouraging the orchestra to continue its work in China.
Tarnopolsky views music as a connection between transcending words and offering significant value to young people and society.
"Music is about non-verbal communication ... understanding, and cooperation," he said. "Music gives voice to thoughts and ideas that words alone cannot express. If we can help create greater understanding through music, then we have succeeded."
Tarnopolsky sees the Philadelphia Orchestra's tours in China as a way to inspire the next generation of musicians.
"I think if there's one thing that the visits of the Philadelphia Orchestra to China can achieve, it is inspiring the next generation to pick up a musical instrument or to sing in a choir," Tarnopolsky said.
He said he admired the enthusiasm for classical music in China, highlighting that many parents are ensuring their children take lessons in piano, violin, and traditional Chinese instruments.
He noted that the essence of music lies in the creative process rather than fame or performing for large audiences, encouraging young musicians to keep learning and exploring. "The great gift of music is that there's never a destination. It's always a journey," he said.
 
THE NEXT CHAPTER
Looking ahead, Tarnopolsky emphasized that the orchestra's legacy with China continues to grow. "We've been going to China for over 50 years, and this is only the beginning of the next chapter."
"Music is a universal language," he said. "Whether it's an improvisation on the pipa or a Beethoven symphony, music can touch us deeply and help us learn about each other's cultures."
Tarnopolsky said the "future is all about collaboration," citing the orchestra's ties with China as an example.
The orchestra is working with prominent Chinese cultural institutions like NCPA and the China Conservatory of Music, as well as forging new partnerships in Chengdu and Hainan.
Tarnopolsky said the support of these Chinese partners has been essential to making the collaborations work. "The more we can blend cultures and ideas, the better."
On a more personal note, Tarnopolsky expressed his admiration for China's cities and cuisine. "I love Beijing-walking around, taking public transportation, just experiencing the life of the city. It's incredible," he said.
"And we always go to this fabulous duck place on the first night. It's become a tradition. Honestly, I eat everything. I don't have a favorite!" he added with a laugh.
He was also enthusiastic about the food and culture in other cities on the tour.
"From the famous Sichuan hotpot in Chengdu to Hainan's unique dishes, the food in China is unforgettable," Tarnopolsky said. "These are experiences that deepen our connection with the people and culture of China." ■
Matias Tarnopolsky, president and CEO of the Philadelphia Orchestra and Ensemble Arts, speaks during an interview with Xinhua in Philadelphia, the United States, on Oct. 24, 2024. (Xinhua/Li Rui)