WASHINGTON, April 12 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese embassy in the United States on Friday strongly rebuked the smearing words on China adopted in a joint statement issued after the U.S.-Japan leaders' meeting earlier this week.
The United States and Japan, "with their Cold War mentality and small group politics, smeared China on the Taiwan question, maritime issues and policy on nuclear weapons, grossly interfered in China's domestic affairs and violated the basic norms in international relations," said an embassy spokesperson in a statement.
"China deplores and opposes such moves, and has made serious demarches to the U.S. side," the spokesperson said.
The Taiwan question is at the very core of China's core interests and the most important and sensitive issue in China-U.S. relations, the spokesperson said, adding that the Taiwan question is purely China's domestic affair and brooks no external interference.
"We urge the U.S. to adhere to the one-China principle and the provisions in the three China-U.S. joint communiques, prudently and properly handle the Taiwan-related issues, and turn President Biden's commitment of not supporting 'Taiwan independence' into concrete actions," the spokesperson said.
China's activities in the East China Sea and South China Sea are in full compliance with international law and there's nothing wrong about them, the spokesperson said, adding that China has indisputable sovereignty over Nanhai Zhudao and its adjacent waters.
China stands ready to continue to properly handle maritime issues with parties concerned through dialogue and consultation, and jointly uphold peace and stability in the South China Sea, the spokesperson said.
"We urge the U.S. to respect the efforts made by regional countries in developing norms through negotiations and upholding peace and stability in the South China Sea. The U.S. side should stop stirring up trouble and confrontation in the South China Sea," the spokesperson said.
China follows a policy of "no first use" of nuclear weapons, and has committed to not using nuclear weapons against non-nuclear weapon states and nuclear-weapon-free zones, the spokesperson said, adding China's nuclear capabilities are kept at the minimum level for national security.
"We don't engage in any forms of arms race. The U.S. sits on the largest and most advanced nuclear arsenal in the world. Even so, it adopts a first-use nuclear policy, devises nuclear deterrence strategies against others and has invested heavily to upgrade its nuclear triad. It has withdrawn from treaties and organizations of arms control, enhanced the NATO nuclear alliance and expanded cooperation with allies on advanced military technologies. All this is a reason for serious concern for the international community," the spokesperson said.
"We urge the U.S. and Japan to meet the trend of the times, abandon the Cold War mentality, immediately stop interfering in China's internal affairs, stop forming anti-China cliques, and stop undermining regional peace and stability. China will resolutely defend its sovereignty, security and development interests," the spokesperson said. ■