WASHINGTON, Feb. 2 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese Embassy in the United States, in partnership with the local organization "Things to Do DC," hosted the "Evening at the Chinese Embassy - Year of the Dragon Celebration" cultural event Thursday night.
About 300 guests were invited to watch festival performances, taste Chinese delicacies, and experience the Chinese New Year.
Minister Jing Quan of the embassy said that one could learn a lot about the Chinese culture through the Spring Festival. He noted that not long ago, the Spring Festival was listed as a UN floating holiday, turning the "Chinese New Year" into the "World's New Year."
"We have friends from different regions and cultures coming to celebrate the Spring Festival. This once again proves that culture goes beyond national borders, and the world can rejoice at the very same things and at the same time," said the minister.
He said the Chinese embassy has been acting to facilitate travels between the two countries, with walk-in visa application services, optimized visa policy and simplified application requirements for travelers from the United States.
The Washington Chinese Traditional Orchestra performed both Chinese and American songs by flute, erhu, dulcimer, guzheng and pipa. Chinese song Golden Dragon Dance expressed best wishes for the upcoming Year of the Dragon, and the American folk song Take Me Home, Country Roads aroused strong resonance among the guests.
Artists from the Hong Dance School presented classic Peking Opera excerpt Heavenly Maid Scattering Blossoms. Guests not only immersed themselves in the graceful figures and colorful silk dances, but also went onto the stage to try the water sleeves and feel the charm of Peking Opera.
The Chinatown lion dancers' performance went from stage to the audience and interacted closely with the guests.
At the event, the guests experienced Chinese folk customs and traditional culture at the booths of calligraphy, New Year pictures, paper-cutting, clay figurine and Hanfu, a style of traditional Chinese clothing.
They learned how to write their names and blessing characters in Chinese, created pictures with dragon and door-god patterns, made various Chinese paper-cuts and clay figurines, and tried on different kinds of Hanfu and took photos with the panda mascot.
They also tasted special Chinese delicacies such as Peking duck, glutinous rice rolls stuffed with red bean paste and osmanthus glutinous rice balls. The "lucky" guests born in the years of dragon walked onto the stage and took a precious group photo.
Patti Harburger was delighted to receive her exclusive souvenir - "Patti" written in Chinese traditional characters with a brush. She told Xinhua that she visited China twice, learned about Chinese calligraphy, and was impressed by the beauty of brush writing. "I love it so much, I will hang it on the wall when I get home," she said.
Greg Bland, CEO of Things to do DC, told Xinhua that the event was very popular, and a large waitlist showed that American people have a strong interest in Chinese culture.
Chinese culture is one of the most fascinating cultures in the world, and exposure to it is particularly important for young Americans, said Bland.
They will be more willing to understand China, interact with the Chinese people, and this will help promote the development of bilateral relations, he added. ■