A replica of Sanxingdui iconic artifact is on display at the "Sanxingdui Encounter" exhibition at the Memor Museum in New York, the United States, on Nov. 21, 2024. The Memor Museum in New York City officially unveiled its much-anticipated exhibition, "Sanxingdui Encounter," with a lively opening ceremony on Thursday. The exhibition, running from Oct. 11, 2024 to Jan. 19, 2025, is part of a prestigious international tour. This opportunity offers the public a fresh perspective and a vital window for understanding ancient Chinese civilization. (The Memor Museum/Handout via Xinhua)
by Ashley Che
NEW YORK, Nov. 22 (Xinhua) -- The Memor Museum in New York City officially unveiled its much-anticipated exhibition, "Sanxingdui Encounter," with a lively opening ceremony on Thursday.
Located in the heart of Manhattan's Metropolitan Museum Historic District, the museum has brought one of China's most mysterious ancient civilizations to life through interactive exhibits and cutting-edge technology.
The exhibition, running from Oct. 11, 2024 to Jan. 19, 2025, is part of a prestigious international tour that has previously been showcased in Beijing, Shenzhen, Shanghai, and Doha IN Qatar. This opportunity offers the public a fresh perspective and a vital window for understanding ancient Chinese civilization.
Willa Ao, president of the Memor Museum, expressed her excitement about the exhibition's debut in the Big Apple.
"With the experience we've gained from previous showcases, we are excited to engage an even broader public audience this time. Our goal is to create an accessible and impactful experience for all visitors. And we are thrilled to see that the local community has responded enthusiastically, with many visitors already coming to explore the exhibit. We hope this growing interest continues to inspire a deeper appreciation for these remarkable cultural artifacts," said Ao.
The artifacts have been meticulously curated over the past four years to guarantee the authenticity and accuracy of the cultural treasures on display, said Ao.
Jiyuan Shang, Cultural Counselor at the Chinese Consulate in New York, shared her insights on the significance of this exhibition and the broader impact it has on promoting Chinese culture abroad.
"Fundamentally, we would love to share, and proudly share the development of Chinese culture to the world. Sanxingdui is a wonder, it serves as a testament to the remarkable achievements of early Chinese civilization and the enduring legacy of Chinese culture," Shang told Xinhua at the event.
The "Sanxingdui Encounter" goes beyond static displays to offer a multi-sensory experience.
The 12K micro-viewing display utilizes ultra-HD technology to capture intricate details of key artifacts, blending virtual and tangible elements to reconstruct historical depth and to observe close details such as fine carvings, textures, and time-worn marks on the artifacts. Both Chinese and American teams have collaborated closely to develop original music and visuals to create this immersive experience.
The VR immersive archaeological experience allows visitors to feel as if they are able to travel directly to the Sanxingdui Museum's iconic halls in China and explore iconic artifacts including the Sacred Tree and Bronze Standing Figure. Additionally, participants are able to explore a recreated virtual archaeological excavation site which provides a realistic and once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to discover the restricted area.
The "Sanxingdui Encounter" features over 10 1:1 scale replicas approved by the National Cultural Heritage Administration. All of the replicas have been meticulously crafted and studied to replicate the original materials and details. The replicas are transported using innovative, patented "C-Tech Relic Boxes," equipped with temperature and humidity controls, GPS tracking, and lightweight materials.
The interactive areas include activities for both children and adults. The themed activities include mystery "blind boxes" to reveal, acrylic pouring, and stamp collection crafts. Young people are able to have an engaged and memorable educational experience.
Visitors are also able to interact with Dui Bao, an AI guide that is able to offer real-time answers about the exhibition and ancient Shu civilization. Dui Bao is able to reach a diverse audience due to its multilingual capabilities.
Sanxingdui is one of the most important archaeological discoveries in China which has unveiled the inexplicable ancient Shu civilization. Dating back over 3,000 years, the ancient Shu people's artifacts were first uncovered in 1927 by a farmer digging an irrigation ditch. The initial findings and archaeological excavations of the site in the following decades gradually substantiated the existence of ancient Shu civilization.
Numerous sacrificial pits containing thousands of gold, bronze, jade, and pottery artifacts were uncovered by local workers in 1986. Further groundbreaking discoveries would not be made until March 2021, in which more than 500 cultural relics, including an astonishing 3,000-year-old golden mask, were located at a 4.6-square-mile area outside the provincial capital of Chengdu. The mask is estimated to be crafted from 80 percent pure gold and weighing 280 grams.
"Seeing the ancient civilization of my homeland presented with such care in a foreign land is indescribably moving. Thank you for bringing Chinese culture to the world," remarked Jessie, a Chinese student in the United States.
"What sets this exhibition apart is its modern technology, like VR. You've never seen artifacts like the Bronze Sacred Tree and Large Standing Figure displayed like this before!" shared local content creator @love.life.travels on Instagram. ■
Photo taken on Oct. 11, 2024 shows replicas of Sanxingdui artifacts on display at the Memor Museum in New York, the United States. The Memor Museum in New York City officially unveiled its much-anticipated exhibition, "Sanxingdui Encounter," with a lively opening ceremony on Nov. 21. The exhibition, running from Oct. 11, 2024 to Jan. 19, 2025, is part of a prestigious international tour. This opportunity offers the public a fresh perspective and a vital window for understanding ancient Chinese civilization. (The Memor Museum/Handout via Xinhua)
Photo taken on Oct. 11, 2024 shows posters of the "Sanxingdui Encounter" exhibition at the Memor Museum in New York, the United States. The Memor Museum in New York City officially unveiled its much-anticipated exhibition, "Sanxingdui Encounter," with a lively opening ceremony on Nov. 21. The exhibition, running from Oct. 11, 2024 to Jan. 19, 2025, is part of a prestigious international tour. This opportunity offers the public a fresh perspective and a vital window for understanding ancient Chinese civilization. (The Memor Museum/Handout via Xinhua)
People attend the opening ceremony of the "Sanxingdui Encounter" exhibition at the Memor Museum in New York, the United States, on Nov. 21, 2024. The Memor Museum in New York City officially unveiled its much-anticipated exhibition, "Sanxingdui Encounter," with a lively opening ceremony on Thursday. The exhibition, running from Oct. 11, 2024 to Jan. 19, 2025, is part of a prestigious international tour. This opportunity offers the public a fresh perspective and a vital window for understanding ancient Chinese civilization. (The Memor Museum/Handout via Xinhua)