People perform a dragon dance during the Lunar New Year celebrations at Disney California Adventure Park in Anaheim, California, the United States, on Jan. 23, 2024. Disneyland Resort kicked off this year's Lunar New Year celebrations on Tuesday, with a variety of culinary delights, art shows and fun festivities. (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)
by Xinhua writer Tan Jingjing
LOS ANGELES, Jan. 24 (Xinhua) -- Disneyland Resort kicked off this year's Lunar New Year celebrations on Tuesday, with a variety of culinary delights, art shows and fun festivities.
The annual celebrations at Disney California Adventure Park in Anaheim, Southern California, have drawn visitors around the world in recent years.
The 2024 Chinese Lunar New Year falls on Feb. 10. It is based on a 12-year Zodiac cycle of characters, with 2024 being the Year of the Dragon.
The Year of the Dragon is believed to represent health, strength, and good fortune.
The colorful Lunar New Year theme has turned the park into a sea of bright red and gold -- the Chinese New Year's traditional colors -- and a wonderland of festive Asian holiday cheer.
A pavilion decked in bamboo, peach blossoms, golden flowers and banners creates a memorable photo opportunity.
At the Lunar New Year Wishing Wall in the park, visitors stroll beneath strings of ornamental lanterns and share their messages of hope, health and happiness for the year ahead.
Jess Niehaus from the U.S. state of Colorado wrote down her new year wishes on a card, and hung it on the Wishing Wall.
"I'm really excited to join the Lunar New Year festival. My mom was born in the Year of the Dragon. It's her year this year," Niehaus told Xinhua.
It is a very good opportunity to learn the Chinese culture during this period of the year, she said, adding it is one of her dreams to visit China in the near future.
"Cultural fairs bring people together ... just the best the life is all about," Niehaus said.
China's legendary warrior character Mulan and her wisecracking dragon friend Mushu lead the way in a Lunar New Year Procession, which honors family, friendship and the potential for a fortune-filled year.
As they march along the parade route, Mulan and Mushu are joined by an array of spirited dancers and martial artists performing powerful rhythms.
Disney characters, including Tigger, Mulan and Mushu, Mickey and Minnie, are all dressed in Chinese festive attire to greet visitors.
"I hope to share the story of Mulan to visitors around the world, and have more people better understand the profound Chinese history and culture," the character of Mulan told Xinhua.
Chinese calligraphy demonstrations and artwork featuring the 12 zodiac animals attract lots of tourists.
Jessica Sanchez, a visitor from Pomona, California, lined up to experience the Chinese calligraphy. "It is the first time I visit Disneyland during the Lunar New Year. It is very interesting to learn something different - the Chinese culture," she told Xinhua.
"It is a way of opening people's eyes to the world," Sanchez noted.
The Lunar New Year celebrations are highlighted by different Asian-inspired cuisine. Six marketplaces and select dining locations at Disney California Adventure Park offer an array of dishes and beverages, prepared with a uniquely Disney twist.
Among the flavorful selections are the shrimp fried rice, Dandan noodle, Char Siu pork bao, and taro Vietnamese-style iced coffee.
"We hope tourists can join us in the celebrations for the Year of the Dragon, to enjoy the Lunar New Year festivities, and truly experience the charm of the Chinese traditional culture," Nicky Tang, Disney Destinations' Greater China and Southeast Asia marketing and sales director, told Xinhua.
The Lunar New Year festivities at Disney California Adventure Park run through Feb. 18. ■
 
People visit Disney California Adventure Park during the Lunar New Year celebrations in Anaheim, California, the United States, on Jan. 23, 2024. Disneyland Resort kicked off this year's Lunar New Year celebrations on Tuesday, with a variety of culinary delights, art shows and fun festivities. (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)
A visitor wearing a Lunar New Year ear headband is seen at Disney California Adventure Park during the Lunar New Year celebrations in Anaheim, California, the United States, on Jan. 23, 2024. Disneyland Resort kicked off this year's Lunar New Year celebrations on Tuesday, with a variety of culinary delights, art shows and fun festivities. (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)
Visitors pose for photos with the cartoon character Mulan during the Lunar New Year celebrations at Disney California Adventure Park in Anaheim, California, the United States, on Jan. 23, 2024. Disneyland Resort kicked off this year's Lunar New Year celebrations on Tuesday, with a variety of culinary delights, art shows and fun festivities. (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)
A visitor hangs a card on the Wishing Wall during the Lunar New Year celebrations at Disney California Adventure Park in Anaheim, California, the United States, on Jan. 23, 2024. Disneyland Resort kicked off this year's Lunar New Year celebrations on Tuesday, with a variety of culinary delights, art shows and fun festivities. (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)
A visitor shows Chinese calligraphy reading Good Health during the Lunar New Year celebrations at Disney California Adventure Park in Anaheim, California, the United States, on Jan. 23, 2024. Disneyland Resort kicked off this year's Lunar New Year celebrations on Tuesday, with a variety of culinary delights, art shows and fun festivities. (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)