by Julia Jay Pierrepont III
LOS ANGELES, Nov. 11 (Xinhua) -- Chinese-U.S. entertainment cooperation is critical to enhancing cross-cultural understanding and bilateral ties, particularly through the universal language of film, according to industry leaders.
Entertainment industry executives, professionals, and officials from both sides made the remarks at a panel session on Saturday on the sidelines of the 20th Chinese American Film Festival and the Chinese American TV Festival, at the University of California, Los Angeles.
The event is a critical platform for filmmakers, industry leaders, and executives from both the United States and China to network, share insights, and discuss the future of global entertainment, Arthur Sarkissian, an A-List Hollywood producer who ran the Rush Hour film series, told Xinhua.
Panelists explored the need for more co-production and co-development between the two countries' entertainment industries, pointing to two prime benefits: providing access to broader audiences and playing an important role in enhancing bilateral relations.
They noted that Hollywood's reach is immense, bringing American media to millions worldwide, while China has the largest and youngest cinema-going audience in the world.
Moreover, panelists deemed it essential for the entertainment sector cooperation and events like these to foster the broader China-U.S. ties to build mutual understanding through the universal language of film.
"We all need to do what we can to keep the channels open and promote deeper cross-cultural understanding and cooperation -- for all our sakes," Michael Tiberi, executive producer of the Chinese-American feature film Swallowtail & Dragonfly, told Xinhua.
Panelists also stressed the need to adapt to the age of short-form content while maintaining the unique artistic value of film and television products.
"We need to keep art in the content, but we also need to meet audiences where they're at," said Bobby Roth, Prison Break TV series producer.
"We can tell well-made stories that matter that are accessible to the new generation -- because they are going to be the ones that decide what 'art' is in the future," said Morgan Eiland, TV writer, producer, and director.
"The future of film lies in a blend of formats, with short-form content driving innovation in the entertainment industry and film providing deeper, more artistic experiences," said Chunping Xu, vice president of Shanghai Film Group. ■