Visitors pose for a selfie under a "wishing tree" at the New York Travel & Adventure Show in New York City, the United States, on Jan. 25, 2025. A selection of Chinese museums showcased their cultural heritage at the New York Travel & Adventure Show on Saturday, aiming to attract international visitors to China. The two-day event attracted over 550 travel providers from around the world. The China booth, organized by the China National Tourist Office in New York and New York City's Memor Museum, featured interactive experiences such as virtual reality views of artifacts from the ancient archaeological site of Sanxingdui in China's Sichuan Province.(Photo by Qin Mingwei/Xinhua)
NEW YORK, Jan. 26 (Xinhua) -- A selection of Chinese museums showcased their cultural heritage at the New York Travel & Adventure Show on Saturday, aiming to attract international visitors to China.
The two-day event attracted over 550 travel providers from around the world. The China booth, organized by the China National Tourist Office in New York and New York City's Memor Museum, featured interactive experiences such as virtual reality views of artifacts from the ancient archaeological site of Sanxingdui in China's Sichuan Province.
"I love everything related to Chinese history and culture, and I'm excited to make more people learn it," said Kristen Martucci, a guide from the Memor Museum who has visited China three times.
Visitors like Mohammed Kothekar from India expressed strong interest in China's cultural offerings. "There are so many unique and beautiful things here, and I'm really looking forward to traveling to these museums," Kothekar said.
China recently introduced new policies to boost tourism, including a 240-hour visa-free transit policy at 60 open ports. ■
China's Consul General in New York Chen Li tours the booth of China at the New York Travel & Adventure Show in New York City, the United States, on Jan. 25, 2025. A selection of Chinese museums showcased their cultural heritage at the New York Travel & Adventure Show on Saturday, aiming to attract international visitors to China.
The two-day event attracted over 550 travel providers from around the world. The China booth, organized by the China National Tourist Office in New York and New York City's Memor Museum, featured interactive experiences such as virtual reality views of artifacts from the ancient archaeological site of Sanxingdui in China's Sichuan Province.(Photo by Qin Mingwei/Xinhua)
A visitor hangs her wishing card onto a "wishing tree" at the New York Travel & Adventure Show in New York City, the United States, on Jan. 25, 2025. A selection of Chinese museums showcased their cultural heritage at the New York Travel & Adventure Show on Saturday, aiming to attract international visitors to China.
The two-day event attracted over 550 travel providers from around the world. The China booth, organized by the China National Tourist Office in New York and New York City's Memor Museum, featured interactive experiences such as virtual reality views of artifacts from the ancient archaeological site of Sanxingdui in China's Sichuan Province.(Photo by Qin Mingwei/Xinhua)
Cultural products from prominent Chinese museums are presented at the New York Travel & Adventure Show in New York City, the United States, on Jan. 25, 2025. A selection of Chinese museums showcased their cultural heritage at the New York Travel & Adventure Show on Saturday, aiming to attract international visitors to China.
The two-day event attracted over 550 travel providers from around the world. The China booth, organized by the China National Tourist Office in New York and New York City's Memor Museum, featured interactive experiences such as virtual reality views of artifacts from the ancient archaeological site of Sanxingdui in China's Sichuan Province.(Photo by Qin Mingwei/Xinhua)