Artists of China Oriental Performing Arts Group stage the performance Dance of Oriental at Los Angeles' Music Center in California, the United States, on Jan. 4, 2025. (Photo by Qiu Chen/Xinhua)
by Julia Pierrepont III, Gao Shan
LOS ANGELES, Jan. 5 (Xinhua) -- The iconic Dorothy Chandler Pavilion at Los Angeles' Music Center on Saturday night hosted a full house, where an enthusiastic audience applauded the captivating, one-night-only performance of Dance of Oriental.
Dance of Oriental features an ensemble of acclaimed dancers from the renowned China Oriental Performing Arts Group (COPAG), a revered national institution known for performing on some of the world's most prestigious stages.
Presented by Oever, a California-based cultural and media company dedicated to preserving and reinterpreting Chinese heritage, the program blended classical and folk dances, each infused with poetic choreography and a centuries-old storytelling tradition through movement. The performances celebrated the richness of Chinese culture while fostering cross-cultural understanding and friendships between the United States and China.
A highlight of the evening was a selection from the internationally acclaimed dance drama The Journey of a Legendary Landscape Painting. This piece interprets the 1113 AD painting Panorama of Rivers and Mountains by Ximeng Wang, glorifying China's natural beauty. Blending dance, music, visual art, and poetic imagination, the performance paid homage to Wang's masterpiece.
The dancers wore ethereal blue costumes, with hairstyles and movements alternating between the fluidity of rivers and the abrupt majesty of towering cliffs.
Having toured over 70 cities, including international stops in Singapore and Türkiye, the production has delivered over 600 performances to enthusiastic audiences.
"The Chinese are famous for their level of artistry and creativity, and the meticulous attention to every detail of this performance was truly remarkable," said Dave, a dance enthusiast and former Dreamworks employee.
Other notable performances included Jasmine, a lyrical dance with floral parasols evoking the beauty of southern China's water towns; Four Practices of Chinese Medicine, a humorous translation of traditional healing practices into dance; Ink on Water, a tribute to Chinese calligraphy and ink-wash painting; Flying Apsaras, inspired by Dunhuang murals and the Silk Road; Far and Beyond, a nod to digital innovation and scientific exploration; and Green and Gaba (Fish Movements), which celebrated the Dai people's aquatic heritage.
"I enjoyed the adroit and layered interplay of dance, music, costumes and backdrops," Paolo, an avid dance aficionado, told Xinhua. "It may have originated in China, but the whole night had an international and timeless feel to it."
Many of the audience praised the dancers for their "effortless" grace and gravity-defying leaps that come from years of intense dedication.
"I couldn't understand all the cultural nuances, but it made me realize Chinese and American cultures were not so different and the elegance and sophistication of the performance transported me to a world of beauty and delight," said Katherine, a University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) graduate.
Meng Shi, one of Oever's co-founders, said "Chinese culture is deeply rooted in history while thriving in contemporary contexts."
"We believe culture transcends borders and time with the power to connect people, regardless of their origins and cultural backgrounds," said her partner-founder Yanbing Bo.
Shi noted that COPAG has performed in major U.S. cities such as San Diego and Los Angeles and will soon take the stage in New York City.
"The tour opens a new window for cultural exchanges and mutual learning between China and the United States, allowing more American audiences to appreciate the beauty of traditional Chinese culture," she said. ■
Artists of China Oriental Performing Arts Group rehearse for the performance Dance of Oriental at Los Angeles' Music Center in California, the United States, on Jan. 4, 2025. (Photo by Qiu Chen/Xinhua)
Artists of China Oriental Performing Arts Group rehearse for the performance Dance of Oriental at Los Angeles' Music Center in California, the United States, on Jan. 4, 2025. (Photo by Qiu Chen/Xinhua)
Artists of China Oriental Performing Arts Group rehearse for the performance Dance of Oriental at Los Angeles' Music Center in California, the United States, on Jan. 4, 2025. (Photo by Qiu Chen/Xinhua)
Artists of China Oriental Performing Arts Group stage the performance Dance of Oriental at Los Angeles' Music Center in California, the United States, on Jan. 4, 2025. (Photo by Qiu Chen/Xinhua)
Artists of China Oriental Performing Arts Group rehearse for the performance Dance of Oriental at Los Angeles' Music Center in California, the United States, on Jan. 4, 2025. (Photo by Qiu Chen/Xinhua)