NEW YORK, Jan. 17 (Xinhua) -- Beijing Normal University-Hong Kong Baptist University United International College (UIC), a public college located in Zhuhai of south China's Guangdong Province, has launched its Boston Center, according to a release from the college.
UIC Boston Center is home to the Institute of Life and Art, the Whitehead Research Center, and the UIC Alumni Association of America, the release issued on Thursday said.
The core mission of the center is to foster robust international partnerships and interdisciplinary amalgamation in education between UIC and the surrounding region, said the release.
"The Center will serve as a hub to enhance academic exchanges, strengthen research partnerships, and broaden educational resources," said UIC President Chen Zhi at the opening ceremony of the center.
"It will create mutual benefits for education and research between China and the U.S.," Chen added.
The UIC Boston Center represents a significant milestone, serving as a global link for liberal arts education and cross-border collaboration in a city renowned for education and innovation, said Hong Kong Baptist University Provost Martin Wong.
The UIC Boston Center serves as a bridge for communication with American higher education, fostering U.S.-China educational exchanges and providing a platform for comprehensive interactions, said Yu Yougen, education counselor at the Chinese Consulate General in New York.
The establishment of the Boston Center showcases UIC's commitment to excellence in education, research, international cooperation, and interdisciplinary development, providing a wider platform for students from the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong to engage with global academic disciplines, while promoting cultural understanding through academic exchanges, said Maisie Ho, director of Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office in New York.
UIC also exchanged memorandums of understanding with Northeastern University and Brandeis University on the occasion of the launch ceremony.
Founded in 2005, UIC is the first full-scale collaboration in higher education between the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong. ■