PHNOM PENH, Dec. 19 (Xinhua) -- Several Chinese non-governmental organizations (NGOs), in collaboration with the Civil Society Alliance Forum (CSAF) of Cambodia, on Tuesday unveiled several projects, aiming at improving the livelihoods of rural people in Cambodia.
Those Chinese NGOs include the China Foundation for Peace and Development, China Foundation for Rural Development, Beijing-based Peaceland Foundation, and Amity Foundation, among others.
They have been cooperating with the CSAF to carry out a number of projects in poverty alleviation, education, healthcare, water supply and sanitation, solar power, bicycle donation, film production, and agricultural development in various provinces.
Under the Silk Road Connectivity Action, these projects are expected to benefit tens of thousands of local people and students.
Tep Ngorn, second vice president of the Senate of Cambodia, said these projects are a result of close cooperation between Cambodia and China under the Belt and Road Initiative, adding that they will greatly contribute to promoting the bond of friendship between the people of the two countries.
"These projects are crucial to help improve the livelihoods of Cambodian people at the grassroots level," he said in a speech during the launch event of the projects held in Phnom Penh, with more than 100 participants.
Meanwhile, Ngorn highlighted the excellent relations and close cooperation between Cambodia and China, saying that their current ties are rock-solid and unbreakable.
Wu Peng, director of the International Department of the China Foundation for Rural Development, said he hopes these projects will not only contribute to improving the livelihoods of the Cambodian people but also help promote people-to-people exchanges between the two countries.
"We have cooperated with the CSAF since 2018. Subsequently, for six consecutive years, we have implemented the International Care Package and International Loving Bicycle projects in Cambodia, benefiting 171,000 primary and secondary school students across 21 provinces," he said.
The CSAF's planning and project director Chea Monyrith said six projects were unveiled at the event, aiming at providing practical benefits to local people based on their needs.
"Overall, these six projects are expected to benefit more than 100,000 people," he told Xinhua. ■