by Raheela Nazir, Zou Shuhua
KARACHI, Pakistan, Dec. 20 (Xinhua) -- Pakistan has made its first shipment of dry red chilies to China as part of enhanced agricultural cooperation between the two countries under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).
To mark the event, a grand ceremony was held on Tuesday in Pakistan's port city of Karachi in southern Sindh province, attended by officials, experts, and business people, among others, from both Pakistan and China.
Pakistan is among the leading chili-producing countries in the world, with the potential to become a major player in chili cultivation. Chinese technical teams are collaborating with local farmers, landowners and universities to help Pakistan reach its full potential as a chili-exporting country.
Speaking on the occasion, Minister for National Food Security and Research Kausar Abdullah Malik said that the agriculture sector is crucial for Pakistan and China has been helping his country to modernize the sector and ensure food security under CPEC.
"Boosting agricultural trade between the two countries as well as enhancing food security is a significant part of CPEC," the minister said, adding that the Chinese companies are providing local farmers with technology and trainings to increase production substantially and grow high-quality crops, including chilies.
Malik said that Pakistan and China would continue to cooperate to boost agricultural production and trade, helping the South Asian country alleviate poverty and improve people's living standards.
The export of the inaugural shipment of dry chilies to China not only showcased the capabilities of Pakistani exporters but also highlighted the potential for further collaboration between Pakistani and Chinese businesses, caretaker Minister for Commerce Gohar Ejaz said.
"It marks the beginning of a new era in the trade relationship between Pakistan and China," he said.
Highlighting the immense potential for growth in the Chinese market, Ejaz said that Pakistani exporters need to uphold high-quality standards, increase productivity, and implement effective marketing strategies to meet the expectations of the Chinese market.
He said the export of Pakistani products to China have the potential to exceed 20 billion U.S. dollars in the coming years, noting that achieving the ambitious goal requires concerted efforts by the Pakistani exporters.
In a video speech, Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Jiang Zaidong said that the red chili contract farming project, in the first batch of CPEC agricultural projects, has showed a demonstration effect, effectively promoting the local agricultural development and helping improve the lives of local farmers.
China has attached great importance to promoting agricultural cooperation with Pakistan and will continue to promote trade facilitation measures, expand contract farming, and push intensive processing of Pakistani agricultural products, the ambassador said.
"We will support more high-quality agricultural products from Pakistan to export to China, continue working for the two countries' agricultural cooperation to deepen and solidify, and bring more tangible benefits to the people," he added.
On the occasion, Zheng Xiaohui, project manager at China's Sichuan Litong Food Group, said that the goal of his company is to promote the healthy and steady development of Pakistan's chili industry.
The Chinese company is carrying out a 16,000-acre chili planting project in Pakistan's eastern Punjab province and southern Sindh province, along with one dry chili processing plant.
"We have trained over 1,500 Pakistani agricultural technicians and provided 6,000 temporary employment opportunities, significantly boosting economic benefits for local farmers," Zheng said. ■