Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, meets with Deputy Foreign Minister of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) Pak Myong Ho in Beijing, capital of China, Dec. 18, 2023. (Xinhua/Ding Haitao)
BEIJING, Dec. 18 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with Deputy Foreign Minister of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) Pak Myong Ho on Monday in Beijing.
Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, said the traditional friendship between China and the DPRK is a valuable asset for both sides.
In recent years, the traditional friendship between China and the DPRK has been further developed in the new era under the strategic guidance and personal care of the top leaders of the two countries, Wang noted.
China always views its relations with the DPRK from a strategic and long-term perspective, Wang said, adding that China stands ready to work with the DPRK to strengthen communication and coordination, and deepen exchanges and cooperation in various fields.
Wang said that China is willing to jointly host a series of commemorative activities for the 75th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries next year, and promote the sustained and steady development of China-DPRK friendly and cooperative relations.
Pak said it is the unswerving position of the DPRK side to continuously develop DPRK-China relations in accordance with the lofty will of the top leaders of the two countries and the requirements of the new era.
Noting that the DPRK is willing to work with China to consolidate the brotherly friendship between the two countries, Pak said the DPRK will continue to strengthen multilateral coordination with China to safeguard common interests and regional peace and stability. ■
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, meets with Deputy Foreign Minister of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) Pak Myong Ho in Beijing, capital of China, Dec. 18, 2023. (Xinhua/Ding Haitao)