by Misbah Saba Malik
ISLAMABAD, Nov. 9 (Xinhua) -- Huda Abdul Basit, a student of English literature and a passionate art enthusiast, was deeply engrossed in the paintings by Chinese artists displayed at an exhibition in the Pakistan National Council of the Arts (PNCA) here in a fine autumn evening.
The 22-year-old noticed a striking disparity between the works of Pakistani and Chinese art, primarily due to the dominant use of black color in the Chinese paintings, but simultaneously, she found the contrast intriguing because it presented a more audacious portrayal of life, pushing beyond the confines of traditional art forms.
Talking to Xinhua about her impression of Chinese art, Basit said that it invites everyone to adopt a more vivid and dynamic perspective on life, challenging conventional norms and exploring the complexities of existence through the prism of creativity.
"Pakistan and China are cooperating in multiple sectors, and there are frequent exchanges in business, education, and other fields. I hope there will also be enhanced cooperation in the arts of culture because it is the most important and effective medium to strengthen people-to-people contacts," she said.
"Pakistani people want to see and know more about Chinese art and literature."
The exhibition "Star Moon Road" was inaugurated on Tuesday, featuring diverse works by Chinese contemporary artists, showcasing a mix of artistic expressions, including scrolls, sculptures, and various other mediums, and offering a captivating exploration of Chinese culture and creativity.
It also marked the commemoration of the 10th anniversary of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).
Launched in 2013, the flagship project under the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI)is a corridor linking Pakistan's southwest Gwadar port with Kashgar in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, highlighting energy, transport, and industrial cooperation.
Speaking at the event, Syed Jamal Shah, Pakistan's caretaker Minister for National Heritage and Culture, said that the exhibition is a celebration of artistic excellence and cultural harmony, reinforcing the bond between Pakistan and China through the language of art.
"The CPEC has not only strengthened economic ties but also paved the way for cultural exchanges... Star Moon Road beautifully captures the essence of this collaboration, showcasing the artistic brilliance of Chinese creators," he added.
There was a fair share of calligraphy apart from paintings and sculptures at the exhibition that attracted the attention of the visitors and students of the art who thronged to the gallery to see the Chinese calligraphy style.
Shabbir Ahmad Zia, an Islamabad-based calligrapher with 40 years of experience in the field, was awestruck by the "free stroke" calligraphy works.
"I cannot understand the language, but the style is very impressive, and I can discern that it is a masterpiece of a very good artist ... the beauty of the work piqued my curiosity and inspired me to learn this style of the art and teach my students about it," Zia added.
He said that Pakistan's primary calligraphy genre is Islamic, with very measured and mathematical strokes. Still, the Chinese contemporary style, on the other hand, is in stark comparison, so it will be a great opportunity for Pakistani students to learn more if Chinese artists visit Pakistan, display their work, and conduct workshops.
The exhibition, which was previously held at other sites in the South Asian country's eastern Punjab and southwestern Balochistan provinces, attracted many students and art enthusiasts in the country's capital. ■