by un Nan, Naim-Ul-Karim
DHAKA, June 26 (Xinhua) -- A Bangladeshi political veteran has lauded China's sci-tech modernization and innovation in pursuing Chinese modernization and high-quality development, as well as China's contributions to global development.
"We're amazed to see high-quality developments that have taken place in various fields including sci-tech in China," former Bangladeshi Information Minister Hasanul Haq Inu told Xinhua Tuesday.
In today's knowledge-oriented economic era, China built an advanced digital economy, which quickly paved the way for it to reach global leadership in advanced technology with developing augment innovation, inventions and technology development, especially in artificial intelligence, quantum computing and others, said Inu, president of the Jatiya Samajtantrik Dal, an ally of Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's ruling Grand Alliance.
Against this backdrop, he said the center of the world's high-tech gravity is shifting to Asia, and to China in particular, as China's unique experience has led to its advanced position in several high-tech fields.
"So far, we understand that China has used advanced technology in manufacturing and increased its reliance on e-commerce, which increased the country's GDP (gross domestic product) and created new job opportunities," said Inu, who graduated as an engineer.
China's achievements in the past decade have accelerated the transformation and upgrading of traditional industries in China and improved people's livelihoods, said Inu.
Meanwhile, he said agricultural science and technology have contributed a lot to China's rural vitalization and poverty alleviation.
Also, he said China invested in green energy to combat climate change and address environmental pollution to achieve sustainable development.
It's now crystal clear that China's sci-tech strength has grown along with the development of the country's economic strength, becoming a driving force for Chinese modernization, he mentioned.
While commenting on China's development achievements in various areas including science and technology, Inu said China's progress is very important to developing countries like Bangladesh.
He said Bangladesh will also benefit in many ways from China's growth and its initiatives like the Belt and Road Initiatives.
The Bangladeshi government, in collaboration with the Chinese government and companies, implemented a number of major ICT (Information and Communication Technology) projects.
"Info-Sarker Phase-3" is one of the important projects that has taken an important role in building digital Bangladesh, he said, adding it is one of the high-quality BRI cooperation between China and Bangladesh, focusing on realizing "Digital Bangladesh."
"We've come to know that this ICT infrastructure project brought thousands of government offices across the country under nationwide connectivity," he said.
"We need proper technology to derive actual benefits from technology transfer from the developed countries, China to be more specific," he said, noting that there is significant potential for countries to transition to greener-energy systems with Chinese supports.
Inu called for accelerating technology transfer and knowledge sharing, and expressed the hope that China would actively foster international technology in the future as part of the vision of building a community with a shared future for humanity. ■