PHNOM PENH, Dec. 18 (Xinhua) -- The sixth Lancang-Mekong International Film Week kicked off here in Phnom Penh, capital of Cambodia, on Wednesday, drawing crowds of film lovers.
Held at the iconic Chaktomuk Theater, the film week has selected a number of famous films made in the Lancang-Mekong River Basin countries to screen for audiences in Cambodia.
Speaking at the opening ceremony, Cambodian Culture and Fine Arts Minister Phoeurng Sackona said it was the first time that the Lancang-Mekong International Film Week had been held outside southwest China's Yunnan Province.
"This event clearly reflects the spirit and determination to promote cooperation and exchanges, and further improve dialogue between countries in the Lancang-Mekong Subregion," she told an audience of about 500.
Sackona said the Lancang-Mekong Subregion, comprising Cambodia, China, Laos, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam, is recognized as a region with rich culture, civilization, and long history.
"The organization of the sixth Lancang-Mekong International Film Week is not only an activity to gather producers and artists in the film industry, but also an important contribution to deepening friendship and a testament to the establishment of long-term partnerships and mutual respect among nations," she said.
The minister said the event would enhance cultural cooperation, film industry cooperation and people-to-people exchanges between China and countries in the Lancang-Mekong River Basin in line with the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).
Sackona added that the event was also an opportunity for film directors, producers, experts and artists from Lancang-Mekong River Basin countries to share knowledge and experience and seek new investment opportunities in the film industry and culture.
"I hope that the partnership established here will pave the way for future production collaborations, technical exchanges and creative sharing in the film industry, contributing to the sustainable growth of the film industry and preserving the richness of our cultural heritage," she said.
Zhai Yulong, director of Film Administration of Yunnan Province, said the film week was a grand gathering for film and cultural exchanges among Lancang-Mekong countries.
"By showcasing excellent film works from each country, we can enable people of various countries to gain a deeper understanding of each other's cultures and histories," he said.
The event would enhance mutual understanding and friendship, and promote cultural exchanges and cooperation among Lancang-Mekong countries to a higher level and broader areas, Zhai said, adding that it also gave an opportunity for film talents from Lancang-Mekong countries to deepen their communication.
Chen Cong, minister counselor of the Chinese Embassy to Cambodia, said the film week would promote in-depth exchanges, cooperation, and development in the film industries of Lancang-Mekong countries.
"I believe that the excellent films showcased during this Film Week will further demonstrate the charming features of the six Lancang-Mekong countries and enhance mutual understanding among the people of the Lancang-Mekong countries," he said.
Chen is confident that through this event, China-Cambodia film cultural exchanges and cooperation would usher in broader prospects, adding radiance and beauty to the construction of a China-Cambodia community with a shared future in a new era.
Film enthusiasts said the film week gave them an opportunity not only to explore diverse cultures and tradition in the Lancang-Mekong countries, but also to witness the development of the film industry in these countries.
"This program is very important for Lancang-Mekong countries, through films, to showcase our culture to each other," Khan Chantharong, a 40-year-old film lover, told Xinhua.
"It is a good opportunity for Cambodia and China to exchange experience in the cinema sector and share techniques in producing films," he added.
Ythoeun Dalyn, another 23-year-old film enthusiast, said the film week was crucial for promoting film industry, cultural exchanges and people-to-people contact among countries in the Lancang-Mekong subregion.
"I think this event is important, allowing us to know the whole cinema industry (in the Lancang Mekong countries)," she told Xinhua.
During the film week, an event of film academic exchange and a film cooperation seminar will also be staged. ■