Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari speaks during an interview with Chinese media in Islamabad, Pakistan, on May 17, 2024. Pakistan abides by the one-China principle as the country always chooses to stand on the right side of history, Zardari said during a recent interview with Chinese media. (Xinhua/Ahmad Kamal)
by Deng Kaiyin, Jiang Chao, Zhang Jingyao
ISLAMABAD, May 21 (Xinhua) -- Pakistan abides by the one-China principle as the country always chooses to stand on the right side of history, Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari said during a recent interview with Chinese media.
Tuesday observes the 73rd anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Pakistan. Recalling the rapport between the previous generations' leaders of the two countries, Zardari said: "My late father-in-law, Pakistan's former Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto told the nation to look east, to look towards China."
Zardari, who had visited China nine times during his first term as Pakistani president, said Pakistani people love China as "there is no conditionality between us."
In the interview, the first one with foreign media after being re-elected as Pakistan's president for the second time in March, Zardari reaffirmed Pakistan's stance of upholding one-China principle, rejecting any form of "Taiwan-independence."
"Taiwan is part of China. There's no other way," the president said, adding that Pakistan will always stand with China and safeguard China's core interests.
Commenting on the development of Gwadar Port, a starting point of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), Zardari said many things have been done in Gwadar port since the launch of the CPEC 11 years ago, noting that the port will always welcome investors from all over the world.
Emphasizing the importance of strengthening people-to-people exchanges between the two countries, Zardari called for more policies to facilitate the movement of people between the two countries as Pakistan is encouraging more schools to adopt the Chinese language into their compulsory curriculum.
Speaking highly of the development achievements made by the Chinese people, Zardari said that ensuring the continuation of policies is one of the key reasons behind China's success, adding that Pakistan hopes to be more involved in China's development process.
"Long live Pakistan-China friendship!" Zardari said in Chinese while concluding the interview. ■
Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari (1st L) speaks during an interview with Chinese media in Islamabad, Pakistan, on May 17, 2024. Pakistan abides by the one-China principle as the country always chooses to stand on the right side of history, Zardari said during a recent interview with Chinese media. (Xinhua/Ahmad Kamal)
Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari is interviewed by Chinese media in Islamabad, Pakistan, on May 17, 2024. Pakistan abides by the one-China principle as the country always chooses to stand on the right side of history, Zardari said during a recent interview with Chinese media. (Xinhua/Ahmad Kamal)
Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari speaks during an interview with Chinese media in Islamabad, Pakistan, on May 17, 2024. Pakistan abides by the one-China principle as the country always chooses to stand on the right side of history, Zardari said during a recent interview with Chinese media. (Xinhua/Ahmad Kamal)