Bangladeshi Foreign Affairs Adviser Md Touhid Hossain delivers a speech during the opening ceremony of the international conference on "China-South Asia Civilization and Connectivity: History and Contemporary Issues" in Dhaka, Bangladesh, Dec. 27, 2024. An international conference on "China-South Asia Civilization and Connectivity: History and Contemporary Issues" opened here Friday. (Xinhua)
DHAKA, Dec. 28 (Xinhua) -- An international conference on "China-South Asia Civilization and Connectivity: History and Contemporary Issues" opened here Friday.
During the opening ceremony, Chinese Ambassador to Bangladesh Yao Wen said that this conference resonates with China's initiative to promote exchanges and mutual learning among civilizations, reflecting the shared aspirations of intellectuals in China and South Asia to foster regional prosperity through cooperation and dialogue.
As a responsible global power and a sincere friend and reliable partner to developing countries, China encourages dialogue and exchanges between different civilizations, remains committed to building an open world economy, and supports developing countries in achieving self-reliant development, Yao added.
For his part, Bangladeshi Foreign Affairs Adviser Md Touhid Hossain said that in the face of unprecedented global challenges, the importance of regional connectivity has surpassed any point in history, and China has provided the Belt and Road Initiative as the answer. Through jointly building the Belt and Road Initiative with China, Bangladesh has achieved leapfrog development in infrastructure, trade, and people-to-people exchanges.
He stressed China and South Asia form a community with a shared future, and only by respecting each other and working together can the region achieve sustainable development and create a world free of poverty with shared prosperity.
Vice-Chancellor of North South University Abdul Hannan Chowdhury expressed a commitment to ensuring the success of this conference and to continuing to build academic bridges between China and South Asia, promoting cultural exchange, intellectual collaboration, and academic dialogue.
The conference, co-hosted by North South University and Yunnan University, has attracted over 100 scholars from China, Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and other countries. The two-day conference featured discussions among participating scholars on topics such as China-South Asia cultural exchanges, geopolitics, economic development, and emerging industries. ■
Vice-Chancellor of North South University Abdul Hannan Chowdhury delivers a speech during the opening ceremony of the international conference on "China-South Asia Civilization and Connectivity: History and Contemporary Issues" in Dhaka, Bangladesh, Dec. 27, 2024. An international conference on "China-South Asia Civilization and Connectivity: History and Contemporary Issues" opened here Friday. (Xinhua)
Chinese Ambassador to Bangladesh Yao Wen delivers a speech during the opening ceremony of the international conference on "China-South Asia Civilization and Connectivity: History and Contemporary Issues" in Dhaka, Bangladesh, Dec. 27, 2024. An international conference on "China-South Asia Civilization and Connectivity: History and Contemporary Issues" opened here Friday. (Xinhua)