PHNOM PENH, Dec. 28 (Xinhua) -- The second batch of 36 brand-new flat wagons purchased from China has arrived in Cambodia, bringing the total number of delivered flat wagons to the kingdom to 96, the operator of Cambodia's railway said on Saturday.
The Royal Railway Plc., a part of Royal Group, said in a news release that the state-of-the-art wagons arrived at the Sihanoukville Autonomous Port on Friday and were successfully unloaded on Saturday morning.
"These wagons, crafted by a leading Chinese manufacturer, are engineered to handle various cargo types, from containers and heavy machinery to construction materials and more," the news release said.
"Their addition reinforces Royal Railway's mission to deliver reliable and versatile freight solutions, empowering industries throughout Cambodia and the region," it added.
Before hitting the tracks, the wagons would undergo a rigorous brake system test to ensure optimal safety and performance.
The 36 wagons are part of a larger order of 221 flat wagons, the news release said, adding that the first batch of 60 wagons arrived in Cambodia on December 1.
"Looking ahead, another 44 wagons are set to arrive in early January 2025, with the remaining units scheduled to roll in over the coming months," the news release said.
It added that this phased expansion demonstrated Royal Railway's dedication to meeting the rising demands of Cambodia's evolving logistics sector.
"This is a pivotal moment for Royal Railway as we expand our fleet to deliver even greater value to our customers," said John Guiry, chief executive officer of Royal Railway.
"These wagons will not only increase our capacity but also improve the efficiency of our logistics operations," he added.
Currently, the Royal Railway operates two railway lines with a total length of 650 km in the Southeast Asian country. The first line connects from the capital Phnom Penh to Sihanoukville and the second one links from the capital to Poipet city on the border with Thailand. ■