KUALA LUMPUR, Sept. 30 (Xinhua) -- The surge of Chinese tourists visiting Malaysia showcases strong affinity for Malaysia and speaks strongly of the close people-to-people ties between the two countries, a Malaysian official with the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture (MOTAC) told Xinhua on Monday.
From January to August 2024, Malaysia has welcomed 2,285,785 Chinese tourists, representing a significant 160 percent growth compared to the same period last year, said Lee Thai Hung, deputy director general of Tourism Malaysia, an agency under MOTAC.
"This surge in arrivals from China is a clear indication of the strong bonds between our nations, especially with the introduction of visa-free entry for Chinese travelers to Malaysia, effective Dec. 1, 2023 until Dec. 31, 2026," he said.
"For half a century, Malaysia and China have enjoyed a relationship built on mutual respect, shared interests, and cultural affinities. Our diplomatic ties have paved the way for extensive cooperation in various fields, including trade, education, and tourism," Lee said.
Lee explained that the signing of two key agreements to promote cooperation in tourism and cultural fields between Malaysia and China in June 2024 opened a new chapter in related areas and paved the way for the multinational nomination to inscribe the element of lion dance on the UNESCO Representative List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.
"For the tourism industry, we will strengthen cooperation in areas such as promotion and marketing, increased air connectivity, business tourism, and the development of community-based and eco-tourism initiatives," he said, adding that the continued growth of Chinese tourists will play a crucial role in achieving the goals of Visit Malaysia 2026 campaign and further strengthening the economic ties between Malaysia and China.
"As we celebrate our 50 years of diplomatic relations, let us look forward to many more years of fruitful cooperation and cultural exchange," Lee said. ■