Chinese sailors wave good-bye to their Vietnamese counterparts after the 36th joint patrol of Chinese and Vietnamese navies in Beibu Gulf in the South China Sea, June 27, 2024. The Chinese and Vietnamese navies concluded their 36th joint patrol in the Beibu Gulf on Thursday. The two sides each sent two vessels for the two-day patrol. The Chinese navy dispatched the two vessels Tongling and Hanzhong. The patrol, a routine activity in line with an agreement signed by the two countries in 2005, aims to deepen the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership between the two countries. (Photo by Zhou Luyao/Xinhua)
GUANGZHOU, June 27 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese and Vietnamese navies concluded their 36th joint patrol in the Beibu Gulf on Thursday.
The two sides each sent two vessels for the two-day patrol. The Chinese navy dispatched the two vessels Tongling and Hanzhong.
During the patrol, the Chinese and Vietnamese naval vessels shared information on their respective courses, as well as on hydrometeorological, maritime and air conditions via maritime communication.
The two sides also conducted joint search and rescue, and signal light drills.
The patrol, a routine activity in line with an agreement signed by the two countries in 2005, aims to deepen the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership between the two countries. ■
A Vietnamese vessel patrols during the 36th joint patrol of Chinese and Vietnamese navies in Beibu Gulf in the South China Sea, June 26, 2024. (Photo by Zhou Luyao/Xinhua)
A Chinese sailor gives order during the 36th joint patrol of Chinese and Vietnamese navies in Beibu Gulf in the South China Sea, June 26, 2024. (Photo by Tong Jiajun/Xinhua)
Chinese sailors send light signals during the 36th joint patrol of Chinese and Vietnamese navies in Beibu Gulf in the South China Sea, June 26, 2024. (Photo by Tong Jiajun/Xinhua)
A Chinese vessel patrols during the 36th joint patrol of Chinese and Vietnamese navies in Beibu Gulf in the South China Sea, June 26, 2024. (Photo by Tong Jiajun/Xinhua)
Chinese sailors wave good-bye to their Vietnamese counterparts after the 36th joint patrol of Chinese and Vietnamese navies in Beibu Gulf in the South China Sea, June 27, 2024. (Photo by Li Zhengsong/Xinhua)
Chinese sailors wave good-bye to their Vietnamese counterparts after the 36th joint patrol of Chinese and Vietnamese navies in Beibu Gulf in the South China Sea, June 27, 2024. (Photo by Li Zhengsong/Xinhua)
Chinese and Vietnamese navies conduct a search and rescue drill during the 36th joint patrol of Chinese and Vietnamese navies in Beibu Gulf in the South China Sea, June 26, 2024. (Photo by Li Zhengsong/Xinhua)
Chinese sailors make a search plan during the 36th joint patrol of Chinese and Vietnamese navies in Beibu Gulf in the South China Sea, June 26, 2024. (Photo by Tong Jiajun/Xinhua)
Chinese vessels patrol during the 36th joint patrol of Chinese and Vietnamese navies in Beibu Gulf in the South China Sea, June 26, 2024. (Photo by Li Zhengsong/Xinhua)