BEIJING, Aug. 19 (Xinhua) -- A Philippine coast guard ship caused a scrape with a Chinese vessel early Monday morning in waters near Xianbin Jiao. Later, it intruded into the waters of Ren'ai Jiao, according to the China Coast Guard (CCG).
At 3:24 a.m., the Philippine coast guard ship ignored repeated warnings from the Chinese side and intentionally sailed dangerously toward a Chinese coast guard vessel on maritime enforcement duty, causing the scrape, said CCG spokesperson Gan Yu. He added that the Philippine side bears full responsibility for the incident.
Around 6 a.m., the Philippine coast guard ship, defying warnings from the Chinese side and disregarding route control, intruded into the waters of Ren'ai Jiao, Gan said, adding that CCG took control measures against the Philippine vessel in accordance with the law.
Gan further stated that the repeated provocations by the Philippine side have seriously infringed upon China's sovereignty and damaged peace and stability in the region. He urged the Philippines to immediately cease such provocations or bear full responsibility for any resulting consequences.
Xianbin Jiao and Ren'ai Jiao are both parts of China's Nansha Qundao. China has indisputable sovereignty over Nansha Qundao and the adjacent waters.
The CCG will continue to carry out law enforcement activities in waters under China's jurisdiction per the law, and resolutely safeguard China's territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests, according to Gan.
Previously, a Philippine coast guard vessel entered the lagoon of the Xianbin Jiao without permission and stayed there for a long time, which seriously infringed on China's sovereignty, violated the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea (DOC), and threatened the peace and stability in the region.
China has lodged solemn representations with the Philippines through diplomatic channels and asked the Philippines to stop its infringement activities and withdraw the vessel immediately. ■