Cambodian King Norodom Sihamoni (R) meets with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, April 21, 2024. (Photo by Van Pov/Xinhua)
PHNOM PENH, April 21 (Xinhua) -- China will always be Cambodia's most trustworthy partner and strongest supporter, visiting Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said here on Sunday.
Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks when meeting Cambodian King Norodom Sihamoni.
Sihamoni said Cambodia appreciates China for its selfless support and assistance in Cambodia's economic and social development, which has provided a powerful impetus to the construction of the Cambodia-China community with a shared future, adding that he believes the construction of the "Industrial Development Corridor" and the "Fish and Rice Corridor" will further boost Cambodia's economic growth.
The king said Cambodia firmly adheres to the one-China policy and actively supports the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind and the three major global initiatives proposed by China.
He expressed a firm belief that the friendship between Cambodia and China will be passed down through generations and grow stronger over time.
For his part, Wang said under the guidance of the two heads of state, the construction of the China-Cambodia community with a shared future has entered a new stage of high quality, high level and high standard.
Wang said China is willing to work with Cambodia to implement the strategic consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries. China will always be Cambodia's most trustworthy partner and strongest supporter.
Noting that China's development will also provide new opportunities for Cambodia's development, Wang said that China is willing to work closely with Cambodia to achieve common development, and keep the construction of the China-Cambodia community with a shared future at the forefront of the times. ■