TOKYO, April 6 (Xinhua) -- With laughter echoing across the ping pong tables, nearly 800 ping pong aficionados from Japan, China and beyond gathered here on Saturday to share their passion for the sport as a two-day friendship game kicked off.
The Third Moutai Cup Japan-China Table Tennis Friendship Tournament this year showcased a diverse range of participants, from the youngest at a tender age of 5 to the eldest at 86.
Among the dignitaries and table tennis lovers at Saturday's opening ceremony for the tournament was Japanese table tennis player and world mixed doubles champion Maharu Yoshimura, who treated the audience to an enthralling exhibition match.
Yoshihito Miyazaki, a director at the Japan Table Tennis Association, emphasized the longstanding friendship between the top players of Japan and China when addressing the gathering.
He hoped that through such grassroots exchanges, participants could experience the allure of the sport and enrich their lives with its vibrant energy.
Former Japanese national table tennis player Kimiyo Matsuzaki reminisced about her participation in the 1961 Table Tennis World Championships in China at the age of 22. Despite securing third place, she received praise from then Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai, who admired her resilient spirit in both victory and defeat.
Matsuzaki, now 85, stressed the importance of sportsmanship alongside skill, encouraged participants to uphold the values of fair play throughout the competition, while expressing her wishes and support for the continued growth of grassroots Japan-China ping pong exchanges.
The Moutai Cup Japan-China Table Tennis Friendship Tournament was initiated in 2018, when Japanese player Miwa Harimoto, who just got picked for the 2024 Paris Olympics, played at the teenager group at the age of 9.
Marking a triumphant return after five years, this year's exchange was supported by the Chinese Embassy in Japan, the Japan-China Friendship Association, and the table tennis associations of both countries.
Li Jun, former Chinese national table tennis player and founder of the exchange, highlighted the event's evolution, boasting a higher caliber of participants and a surge in attendance, citing highlights of this year's event such as the inclusion of members from China and Japan's national junior teams, as well as the enthusiastic participation of prestigious universities such as Zhejiang University and Meiji University.
Li hoped that the platform would encourage more people to develop passion for table tennis, thus nurturing the emergence of top-tier players in the future. ■