Chinese baritone Liao Changyong (R) and German pianist Hartmut Höll give a performance in Auckland, New Zealand, Nov. 19, 2024. The New Zealand audience was treated to an extraordinary cultural feast as renowned Chinese baritone Liao Changyong and brilliant German pianist Hartmut Höll performed together in Auckland on Tuesday evening. (Xinhua/Long Lei)
AUCKLAND, New Zealand, Nov. 20 (Xinhua) -- The New Zealand audience was treated to an extraordinary cultural feast as renowned Chinese baritone Liao Changyong and brilliant German pianist Hartmut Höll performed together in Auckland on Tuesday evening.
The Chinese Art Song Recital, presented by the Shanghai Conservatory Of Music and AUSFENG Event, featured 16 outstanding Chinese Art Songs based on classic poetry from the Tang Dynasty to the present. Liao captivated the audience with his powerful and expressive voice.
The recital featured a harmonious blend of music, poetry, and visual art. Each Chinese song was accompanied by a piece of Chinese calligraphy and a traditional Chinese ink painting, creating a magnificent interplay of poetry, music, and painting. The three-dimensional presentation offered the New Zealand audience a rich, immersive experience of traditional Chinese culture.
The audience was deeply moved by the seamless integration of music and visual art, which brought the timeless beauty of Chinese poetry to life.
Mike Dawson, president of the New Zealand China Friendship Society Auckland Branch, told Xinhua that he enjoyed the aesthetic atmosphere offered by the beautiful songs, the calligraphy and the painting in the stage background.
The Cloud Chamber New Zealand presented opening songs to the concert. ■
Chinese baritone Liao Changyong (R) and German pianist Hartmut Höll give a performance in Auckland, New Zealand, Nov. 19, 2024. The New Zealand audience was treated to an extraordinary cultural feast as renowned Chinese baritone Liao Changyong and brilliant German pianist Hartmut Höll performed together in Auckland on Tuesday evening. (Xinhua/Long Lei)