Children receive bags of gifts given by Chinese and Pakistani volunteers at a slum in Islamabad, Pakistan, on March 17, 2024. A group of a dozen Chinese and Pakistani volunteers associated with China-Pakistan Youth Exchange Community, and Beijing One Heart Sphere Charity Foundation visited two schools and delivered about 200 donation bags of gifts to children and women. (Xinhua/Ahmad Kamal)
by Misbah Saba Malik
ISLAMABAD, March 18 (Xinhua) -- On a crisp spring morning, the sun cast its golden rays, painting the outskirts of Islamabad with a warm glow as it illuminated the scene of children frolicking joyfully on receiving gift bags from Chinese volunteers as a token of friendship and goodwill.
The laughter of over 100 little boys and girls at a makeshift school in the slums of the Pakistani capital echoed through the air as they leaped and clapped with happiness, giving the onlookers a perfect sight to behold the power of kindness and generosity, brightening the early hours of the day.
A group of a dozen Chinese and Pakistani volunteers associated with China-Pakistan Youth Exchange Community, and Beijing One Heart Sphere Charity Foundation visited two schools and delivered about 200 donation bags to children and women there.
The kids at the schools are from underprivileged families, with some being orphans, others homeless, and many the offspring of disabled parents. All of them are very familiar with the Chinese people who frequently visit their homes and schools with bags full of not just material goods, but immeasurable happiness.
The children eagerly anticipated the arrival of the Chinese friends, with their faces lighting up with excitement at the prospect of spending time with those who have brought warmth and kindness into their lives.
"I wait for their visit, and a rush of happiness floods over me when I see them entering the school gate ... they are always very nice to us and embrace us with love and kindness," Muhammad Ullah, a student in grade five, told Xinhua.
Last week, the Chinese volunteers, mostly students at various universities in Islamabad, brought food and toys for the kids, and this weekend, they came with ration bags filled with flour, rice, and cooking oil to make the ongoing Islamic fasting month of Ramadan easier for them and their families.
Talking to Xinhua about his volunteer work, Yuan Wenhao, a Chinese student studying at International Islamic University Islamabad, said that to make Ramadan easy for the kids' families, they bought food items from the market and hand-packed them for the children.
"The underprivileged children need our kindness and support, my heart feels at ease when I visit here, and my eyes are filled with joy when I see smiles on their faces when they receive gifts. All these kids deserve to be happy and live a good life, and I am just playing a small part in bringing love from China to Pakistan," Yuan said.
Faryal Shah, a teacher at one of the two schools receiving the donations, said Chinese volunteers always take care of the children's educational needs and provide them with stationery, books, and other necessities.
"These children are impoverished, they live in shacks and their parents do not even have resources to feed them ... For them, Chinese volunteers are like angels, bringing smiles to their faces," Shah told Xinhua.
The women and children who received the gift bags said they think the heartwarming efforts by Chinese volunteers represent a beacon of hope and compassion for underprivileged families, demonstrating that individual efforts could make the world a better place for all. ■
Children receive bags of gifts given by Chinese and Pakistani volunteers at a slum in Islamabad, Pakistan, on March 17, 2024. A group of a dozen Chinese and Pakistani volunteers associated with China-Pakistan Youth Exchange Community, and Beijing One Heart Sphere Charity Foundation visited two schools and delivered about 200 donation bags of gifts to children and women. (Xinhua/Ahmad Kamal)
A boy smiles as he receives a bag of gifts from Chinese and Pakistani volunteers at a slum in Islamabad, Pakistan, on March 17, 2024. A group of a dozen Chinese and Pakistani volunteers associated with China-Pakistan Youth Exchange Community, and Beijing One Heart Sphere Charity Foundation visited two schools and delivered about 200 donation bags of gifts to children and women. (Xinhua/Ahmad Kamal)
Children receive bags of gifts given by Chinese and Pakistani volunteers at a slum in Islamabad, Pakistan, on March 17, 2024. A group of a dozen Chinese and Pakistani volunteers associated with China-Pakistan Youth Exchange Community, and Beijing One Heart Sphere Charity Foundation visited two schools and delivered about 200 donation bags of gifts to children and women. (Xinhua/Ahmad Kamal)
A Chinese volunteer gives a bag of gifts to a boy at a slum in Islamabad, Pakistan, on March 17, 2024. A group of a dozen Chinese and Pakistani volunteers associated with China-Pakistan Youth Exchange Community, and Beijing One Heart Sphere Charity Foundation visited two schools and delivered about 200 donation bags of gifts to children and women. (Xinhua/Ahmad Kamal)