YANGON, Aug. 2 (Xinhua) -- The China Cultural Center in Yangon came alive on Friday morning as students from six basic education schools in Yangon, accompanied by their teachers, gathered to attend a donation ceremony of sports equipment to Myanmar schools.
Wearing their neatly pressed white and green uniforms, the students were excited to receive much-needed sports materials for their schools donated by Chinese organizations.
The event organizers said that the donation aimed to promote stronger ties between civil society organizations of China and Myanmar.
Khant Nyar Naing, a ninth grader from a school in Dagon Seikkan township, beamed with joy as he received sports materials for his school during the event. "I'm very happy to receive these sports materials," he said.
"It's my first time at an event like this, and I especially love sports materials for footballs because I enjoy playing football. My dream is to become a football player, and this donation will help me pursue that," he said.
Min Khant Thant, a third-grader from a primary school in Hlaingthaya township, shared his excitement about the cane balls.
"Our schools received sports materials for football, sepak takraw, and badminton. My favorite sports materials are cane balls. I play sepak takraw. Additionally, I enjoy learning drawing. My ambition is to become a teacher when I grow older. I know that the sports materials were donated by China," he said.
Zue Zue Wai, another third-grader from Hlaingthaya township, also said, "It is my first time attending such an event. I'm happy to receive the sports materials for our school."
"My favorite ones are footballs. I like playing football. I play football every day. I want to be a football athlete when I grow up," the 10-year-old schoolgirl shared her dream.
The ceremony not only provided much-needed sports equipment to the schools but also fostered a spirit of goodwill and cooperation between China and Myanmar.
Daw Wint Thu Htike, a teacher from a school in Mayangone township, said "These (donations) are really needed. Providing these sports materials is like promoting the students' sports abilities. With these, students will be able to play their favorite sports."
"This donation is beneficial for both countries. China and Myanmar have had relations since ancient times. We are good neighbors. Such events strengthen our bond," she added. ■