Guests attend the opening ceremony of the China higher education exhibition 2024 held at Bangkokthonburi University in Bangkok, Thailand, June 22, 2024. The exhibition opened at Bangkokthonburi University in Thailand on Saturday, featuring 32 Chinese universities' participation and attracting large crowds of Thai students and teachers. (Xinhua/Sun Weitong)
BANGKOK, June 22 (Xinhua) -- China higher education exhibition 2024 opened at Bangkokthonburi University in Thailand on Saturday, featuring 32 Chinese universities' participation and attracting large crowds of Thai students and teachers.
In his opening speech, Thai Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Pirapan Salirathavibhaga hailed the exhibition as an opportunity to promote educational and academic exchanges and cooperation between Thailand and China.
"It also provides more choices for young students interested in studying in China, allowing them to learn about the development of China's higher education and various scholarship information," said Pirapan.
Chinese Ambassador to Thailand Han Zhiqiang noted that educational exchanges and cooperation remain an important part of China-Thailand cooperation, and the exhibition is the first large-scale event of its kind hosted in Thailand by the China Scholarship Council.
"It comprehensively introduces and displays the enrollment, major settings, training methods, and other information of dozens of famous Chinese universities, providing a rare opportunity for Thai teachers and students to have an in-depth understanding of Chinese universities," he added, highlighting its great significance to promote educational exchanges and cooperation between China and Thailand.
Zhang Jun, head of the China higher education delegation, said that the participating universities include Tsinghua University, China University of Political Science and Law, and Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, among others.
Zhang also expressed his hope for further collaboration between Chinese-Thai universities and the expansion of two-way flows of students and scholars from the two countries.
The exhibition was hosted by the China Scholarship Council and the Chinese Embassy in Thailand, and organized by Bangkokthonburi University. ■
Chinese Ambassador to Thailand Han Zhiqiang addresses the opening ceremony of China higher education exhibition 2024 held at Bangkokthonburi University in Bangkok, Thailand, June 22, 2024. The exhibition opened at Bangkokthonburi University in Thailand on Saturday, featuring 32 Chinese universities' participation and attracting large crowds of Thai students and teachers. (Xinhua/Sun Weitong)
Students visit the booth of Chinese universities during the China higher education exhibition 2024 held at Bangkokthonburi University in Bangkok, Thailand, June 22, 2024. The exhibition opened at Bangkokthonburi University in Thailand on Saturday, featuring 32 Chinese universities' participation and attracting large crowds of Thai students and teachers. (Xinhua/Sun Weitong)
Zhang Jun, head of the China higher education delegation, speaks at the opening ceremony of China higher education exhibition 2024 held at Bangkokthonburi University in Bangkok, Thailand, June 22, 2024. The exhibition opened at Bangkokthonburi University in Thailand on Saturday, featuring 32 Chinese universities' participation and attracting large crowds of Thai students and teachers. (Xinhua/Sun Weitong)
Thai Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Pirapan Salirathavibhaga addresses the opening ceremony of China higher education exhibition 2024 held at Bangkokthonburi University in Bangkok, Thailand, June 22, 2024. The exhibition opened at Bangkokthonburi University in Thailand on Saturday, featuring 32 Chinese universities' participation and attracting large crowds of Thai students and teachers. (Xinhua/Sun Weitong)
Students attend the opening ceremony of the China higher education exhibition 2024 held at Bangkokthonburi University in Bangkok, Thailand, June 22, 2024. The exhibition opened at Bangkokthonburi University in Thailand on Saturday, featuring 32 Chinese universities' participation and attracting large crowds of Thai students and teachers. (Xinhua/Sun Weitong)
Students visit the booth of Chinese universities during the China higher education exhibition 2024 held at Bangkokthonburi University in Bangkok, Thailand, June 22, 2024. The exhibition opened at Bangkokthonburi University in Thailand on Saturday, featuring 32 Chinese universities' participation and attracting large crowds of Thai students and teachers. (Xinhua/Sun Weitong)