PHNOM PENH, Dec. 6 (Xinhua) -- A Chinese story photography exhibition opened at the National Museum of Cambodia (NMC) in Phnom Penh, capital of Cambodia, on Friday, attracting scores of photo lovers.
Jointly organized by the NMC and the China Photographers Association, the four-day event showcased a total of 40 photographs taken by Chinese professional photographers, featuring China's beautiful scenery, calligraphy and cultural heritages.
Ly Vanne, an undersecretary of state at Cambodia's Ministry of Culture and Fine Arts, said the event was part of joint activities to celebrate the 66th anniversary of the establishment of Cambodia-China diplomatic relations and the Cambodia-China people-to-people exchange year 2024.
"The event has not only allowed visitors to gain better insight into China's glorious culture and civilization, but also injected fresh vitality into Cambodia-China cultural exchange," he said.
Meanwhile, Vanne expressed his profound gratitude to China for providing strong support for Cambodia in safeguarding, preserving and developing both tangible and intangible cultural properties.
Chen Cong, minister-counsellor of the Chinese Embassy to Cambodia, said the vivid portrayal of these photographs, together with invaluable antiquities at the National Museum of Cambodia, would resonate strongly with the audience.
He said as an important window for cultural exchange, photography could transcend national boundaries and languages, interpret the customs of various countries, and effectively promote mutual understanding between the Chinese and foreign peoples.
"We hope that more Cambodian friends will further perceive China and fall for China through this photography exhibition," Chen said.
"At the same time, we also welcome Cambodian photographers and artists to hold exhibitions in China to show the Chinese people the beautiful and colorful natural scenery and long and splendid history and culture of Cambodia, the Kingdom of Wonder," he added.
Visitors said the exhibition would contribute to fostering closer cultural and artistic relations between Cambodia and China as well as promoting interactions between photographers from the two countries.
Sros Linh Er, a first-year student at the Asia Euro University, said she had learned a lot from this exhibition, getting better understanding of Chinese photography, arts and paintings.
"The photographs that impress me the most are those depicting giant pandas because they are adorable," she told Xinhua.
On Sreynit, another first-year student at the Royal University of Phnom Penh, said the photographs featuring snow in China were beautiful and very attractive.
"With this photography exhibition, I have gained insight into Chinese culture and this event has contributed further to promoting the China-Cambodia relations," she told Xinhua. ■