VIENTIANE, April 13 (Xinhua) -- The China-Laos Railway is taking measures to ensure the smooth flow of travelers, as the upcoming Lao New Year holiday will likely see a massive passenger traffic this year.
The Lao New Year is the most important festival in the Lao calendar as a time of fun for Laotians. This year's holiday for celebrations runs from April 13 to April 18.
In a bid to cope with the surging passenger flow, the Laos-China Railway Co., Ltd. (LCRC) will provide extra train services from April 12 to April 19 between capital Vientiane and the Luang Prabang province. It is anticipated that travels on this route will reach peak levels as the northern province is the most popular destination during the holiday.
"The passenger train operation chart will be adjusted in a timely manner according to the changes in passenger flow, and additional trains will be organized during peak transport periods," Deputy Chief Engineer of the LCRC Vongthong Souphanthong told reporters.
He said the ticket management system will be optimized to facilitate passengers to purchase tickets, both online and offline.
In addition, passengers wanting to travel on the railway during this period can buy tickets up to seven days in advance of their planned travel date.
To ensure safety, railway staff members carry out maintenance work on trains and make every effort to provide passengers with safe, fast and comfortable services.
The rail operator is committed to improve the services, including providing comfortable waiting areas at railway stations and enhancing the travel experience of passengers.
Travel on the China-Laos Railway is popular because it is convenient, quick and relatively cheap.
"We are going to Luang Prabang because it's a famous city for Pi Mai Lao (the Lao New Year). We go there to have fun and spend some time with friends," a French passenger traveling with his friends told Xinhua on Saturday.
He said that they decided to take the train because it's much faster compared to the bus.
"It's way cheaper, safer and easier than the plane," he added.
During the Lao New Year, people usually make merit with family, clean their home and sprinkle water over Buddha images, elders and monks.
Sone Phommavong told Xinhua that she will bring her children to her hometown in VangVieng so they can spend time with their grandparents during the holiday.
"My kids love riding the train. If they travel by car or bus, they get dizzy, but they are happy every time we take the train together. They told me that they always want to go to VangVieng with me because they enjoy riding the train," said Sone.
Xaypaserd Moungkhoun, a Lao businessman living in France, came back to Laos to enjoy the festive atmosphere of the Lao New Year in Luang Prabang province.
Talking about his impression of the China-Laos Railway, he said, "At first, I didn't expect that the train would be this good. Considering the environment at the station and inside the train, I think the train provides a comfortable riding experience."
"I think it's a highly advanced train," Xaypaserd added
The China-Laos Railway connects Kunming in Southwest China's Yunnan Province with Vientiane. The 1,035-km railway, a landmark project of high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, started operation on Dec. 3, 2021.
The railway has turned the land-locked country into a land-linked hub in the Indo-China Peninsula, helping Laos effectively overcome its development barriers and improving the Lao people's livelihood. ■