Foong Yan Lin, a Malaysian graduate, speaks at Tianjin University's 2024 commencement ceremony for undergraduate students in north China's Tianjin on July 6, 2024.(Tianjin University/Handout via Xinhua)
TIANJIN, July 21 (Xinhua) -- A slogan on the wall of Tianjin University's School of International Education in the Chinese city of Tianjin has greatly inspired 23-year-old Malaysian graduate Foong Yan Lin.
"The slogan read 'working for the country for 50 years with a healthy body.' Then it occurred to me why not contribute to the Sino-Malaysian friendship for 50 years," said Foong, who expressed such a wish in his heartfelt commencement address earlier this month.
"I look forward to the 100th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Malaysia, when I am 73 years old, I can return to my second hometown Tianjin as an outstanding alumnus and report on the contributions I have made for the Sino-Malaysian friendship," Foong said in the address, evoking rounds of applause from the audience.
While China and Malaysia are celebrating the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations this year, Foong saw opportunities in China.
Four years ago, Foong decided to head to China to study marine technology at Tianjin University -- a journey he described as "transformative."
"Like Malaysia, China has a long coastline with rich marine resources, which was a major reason I chose to come," said Foong, speaking fluent Chinese.
On campus, he spent a huge amount of time at the lecture halls, laboratories and libraries, gaining extensive knowledge about ocean mapping through courses like marine geology, marine topographic surveying and marine positioning technology.
"These courses have equipped me with the techniques needed to explore the ocean," he said.
During his studies, he made a video with his friends on the theme of marine environmental protection and won the popularity award at a student film competition held in 2021.
In the summer of 2023, Foong went to Bohai Bay for marine and coastal mapping and operated technical equipment including a single-beam echo sounder, leveling instrument and airborne mapping equipment.
"This experience helped me sort out the research path I will pursue in my postgraduate study, which is laser-based seawater sound speed measurement," he said, adding that he hopes to develop more accurate, faster and cheaper ways of measuring seawater sound velocity and contribute to modern ocean mapping.
This year, Foong and his fellow Malaysian students at the university wrote a joint letter to the Chinese government about their studying and living in China, and a letter of reply greatly encouraged them.
"Hopefully, in the future, the friendship between China and Malaysia will deepen, and more and more international students will come to China," said Foong.
Foong plans to continue his studies in marine technology at Tianjin University for a master's degree.
"If I am successful in marine technology and science, I hope to help strengthen cooperation between the two countries along the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road, boosting mutual development," Foong said. ■