Advisor for Foreign Affairs of Interim Government Md. Touhid Hossain speaks during the seminar on "Bangladesh-China Relations: A Future Outlook" in Dhaka, Bangladesh, Oct. 14, 2024. The seminar was held on Monday by the Chinese Embassy, in collaboration with the Center for Chinese Studies and Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies. (Xinhua)
DHAKA, Oct. 16 (Xinhua) -- The seminar on "Bangladesh-China Relations: A Future Outlook" was held on Monday by the Chinese Embassy, in collaboration with the Center for Chinese Studies and Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies.
Chinese Ambassador to Bangladesh Yao Wen, Advisor for Foreign Affairs of Interim Government Md. Touhid Hossain, Director of the Academic Advisory Council in Shanghai Institutes for International Studies Yang Jiemian, along with 200 other guests, attended the event.
In his keynote address, Yao stated that China and Bangladesh are now facing significant historical opportunities for deeper cooperation. China stands ready to work with Bangladesh to seize the opportunities of the 50th anniversary of diplomatic ties, promote traditional friendship, consolidate political mutual trust, deepen Belt and Road cooperation, and further advance the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership to a new height.
Yang said that both countries are at the key juncture of national development. The two countries should enhance experience sharing on governance, enhance synergy of respective strengths, support each other's core interests, and jointly tackle challenges.
Touhid stressed at the opening ceremony that Bangladesh and China always treat each other with equity and render each other support, setting a good example of friendly coexistence and win-win cooperation.
He said that Bangladesh is looking forward to strengthening all-around engagement with China, deepening cooperation in trade, investment, green energy, infrastructure development, technology sharing, tourism, etc. Bangladesh will make the "Bangladesh-China Year of People-to-People Exchanges" a great success with China. ■
Chinese Ambassador to Bangladesh Yao Wen speaks during the seminar on "Bangladesh-China Relations: A Future Outlook" in Dhaka, Bangladesh, Oct. 14, 2024.
The seminar was held on Monday by the Chinese Embassy, in collaboration with the Center for Chinese Studies and Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies. (Xinhua)
Director of the Academic Advisory Council in Shanghai Institutes for International Studies Yang Jiemian speaks during the seminar on "Bangladesh-China Relations: A Future Outlook" in Dhaka, Bangladesh, Oct. 14, 2024.
The seminar was held on Monday by the Chinese Embassy, in collaboration with the Center for Chinese Studies and Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies. (Xinhua)
This photo taken on Oct. 14, 2024 shows a seminar on "Bangladesh-China Relations: A Future Outlook" in Dhaka, Bangladesh. The seminar was held on Monday by the Chinese Embassy, in collaboration with the Center for Chinese Studies and Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies. (Xinhua)