BEIJING, April 1 (Xinhua) -- It is of symbolic and historical significance that China won the dispute with Australia at the World Trade Organization (WTO) over Australia's anti-dumping measures on steel products imported from China, an expert observed.
"The ruling supports China's consistent positions and safeguards the long-term interests of China's export industry. Additionally, it provides a favorable institutional and discourse environment for China's participation in global governance," said Ding Ru, associate professor at the China University of Political Science and Law.
In response to China's victory in the dispute, a Ministry of Commerce spokesperson said last week that China believes the ruling is clear and unequivocal, and the discriminatory practice of the Australian side in taking anti-dumping measures against relevant products of Chinese enterprises is wrong.
China lodged a dispute case in June 2021 under the WTO dispute settlement mechanism over Australia's anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures against some Chinese steel imports.
The dispute pertains to Australian trade measures imposed or extended on imports of railway wheels, wind towers and stainless steel sinks from China in 2019 and 2020.
The WTO panel's solid legal analysis highlights, for the first time, that Australia's practice of replacing Chinese companies' cost records with third-country cost data is in violation of WTO rules, said Ding.
"The ruling in this case not only marks a victory in an individual case, but will also safeguard the long-term interests of Chinese enterprises as they expand globally," she said.
In addition, the ruling provides an international ruling in favor of Chinese export enterprises when they face other countries' anti-dumping investigations in the future, Ding noted.
She added that the ruling also provides a good legal basis for China to bring other similar cases to the WTO in the future.
Noting that China's resort to WTO dispute settlement reflects that the country firmly supports and safeguards the WTO-centered multilateral trading system, Ding believes that as more WTO members safeguard their legitimate rights through the multilateral system, the international economic and trade order will become more equitable, reasonable and transparent. ■