This photo taken on Sept. 12, 2024 shows a scene at the launching and awarding ceremony of the CITIC Star scholarship in Yangon, Myanmar. The launching and awarding ceremony of the CITIC Star scholarship was held in Yangon, Myanmar on Thursday. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)
YANGON, Sept. 12 (Xinhua) -- The launching and awarding ceremony of the CITIC Star scholarship was held in Yangon, Myanmar on Thursday.
Chinese Ambassador to Myanmar Ma Jia said at the event that the Chinese Embassy in Myanmar has always supported and encouraged Chinese-funded enterprises in Myanmar to actively fulfill their social responsibilities, help improve local economic development and social livelihood, and contribute to the "Paukphaw" (fraternal) friendship.
Ma said that next year will be the 75th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Myanmar. China is willing to work with Myanmar to inherit and carry forward the "Paukphaw" friendship, deepen cooperation in jointly implementing the Belt and Road Initiative, and jointly advance the building of a China-Myanmar community with a shared future.
U Ko Ko Hlaing, union minister of ministry 2 at the office of the chairman of the state administration council, said that CITIC Myanmar and the China Foundation for Rural Development have worked hard to contribute to Myanmar's poverty alleviation and development.
He thanked all parties for working together to provide better learning conditions for Myanmar students and promote the progress of the country's education.
The CITIC Star scholarship is funded by CITIC Myanmar and implemented by the China Foundation for Rural Development.
It will provide 240 scholarships to two universities, Yangon University of Foreign Languages and Myanmar Maritime University, each year in the next two years.
In the next two years, CITIC Myanmar also plans to carry out knowledge lectures, university student innovation projects, field research and other empowerment activities to help Myanmar students improve their capability. ■
Chinese Ambassador to Myanmar Ma Jia addresses the launching and awarding ceremony of the CITIC Star scholarship in Yangon, Myanmar, Sept. 12, 2024. The launching and awarding ceremony of the CITIC Star scholarship was held in Yangon, Myanmar on Thursday. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)