Chinese Premier Li Qiang holds talks with New Zealand Prime Minister Christopher Luxon in Wellington, New Zealand, June 13, 2024. (Xinhua/Rao Aimin)
WELLINGTON, June 13 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Premier Li Qiang met with New Zealand Prime Minister Christopher Luxon here on Thursday, agreeing to expand the scope of bilateral trade and investment and deepen personnel exchanges.
During their talks, Li said his visit coincides with the 10th anniversary of President Xi Jinping's official visit to New Zealand and the establishment of China-New Zealand comprehensive strategic partnership.
Over the past 10 years, no matter how the international landscape changes, China and New Zealand have consistently adhered to mutual respect, inclusiveness, cooperation and joint development, promoting bilateral relations to achieve substantial progress, and creating multiple "firsts" in bilateral cooperation, he said.
China is willing to work with New Zealand to continue their traditional friendship, enhance the spirit of "striving to be the first," jointly stimulate growth, and make efforts to upgrade the China-New Zealand comprehensive strategic partnership to bring more benefits to their people, Li added.
Li said that the respective development of China and New Zealand is an opportunity for each other rather than a challenge, calling on the two countries to continue as partners of mutual respect, mutual trust and mutual benefit that learn from each other and foster unity and coordination.
China stands ready to work with New Zealand in continuously expanding trade, exploring cooperation potential in sectors including digital economy, green economy, new energy vehicles and creative industry, and jointly promoting regional economic cooperation, said the Chinese premier.
He also called on New Zealand and China to eliminate non-economic disruptions in their economic and trade relations to provide businesses with stable expectations and a favorable business environment, adding that China welcomes more investment from New Zealand enterprises.
Noting that China is willing to deepen cultural and people-to-people exchanges with New Zealand, Li said China will include New Zealand in the list of unilateral visa-free countries and expressed the hope for New Zealand to facilitate easier travel for Chinese citizens visiting the country.
China and New Zealand are both firm supporters of multilateralism, free trade and an open world economy, Li said, calling on the two nations to strengthen communication and coordination in multilateral fields, and promote all parties to stick together through thick and thin for win-win cooperation. ■
Chinese Premier Li Qiang holds talks with New Zealand Prime Minister Christopher Luxon in Wellington, New Zealand, June 13, 2024. (Xinhua/Ding Haitao)