Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, meets with Than Shwe, former chairman of the Myanmar State Peace and Development Council, in Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar, Aug. 14, 2024. (Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China/Handout via Xinhua)
NAY PYI TAW, Aug. 14 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said here Wednesday that China firmly opposes external interference in Myanmar and will continue the support for Myanmar's efforts towards domestic political reconciliation under the constitutional framework.
Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, made the remarks when meeting with Than Shwe, former chairman of the Myanmar State Peace and Development Council.
During the meeting, Wang said China firmly opposes external interference and infiltration in Myanmar as well as any words and deeds that undermine the stability and development of the Southeast Asian country.
China will continue to support Myanmar in safeguarding its independence, sovereignty, national unity, and territorial integrity, Wang said, and reaffirmed China's support for Myanmar's efforts to achieve domestic political reconciliation under the constitutional framework, hold national elections and restart the democratic transition process.
During the meeting, Than Shwe thanked China for providing long-term selfless support and help to Myanmar in all aspects.
China is Myanmar's "paukphaw" (fraternal friend) and friendly neighbor, and the two countries have always treated each other in a friendly manner, Than Shwe said, noting the long-time peaceful coexistence between them would never change.
He expressed hope that China will continue to provide support for Myanmar, helping Myanmar guard against external interference and maintain domestic stability.
During the meeting, Wang also highlighted the China-Myanmar "paukphaw" friendship has withstood the test of vicissitudes in the international landscape, becoming ever stronger over time.
China has always placed the development of China-Myanmar relations at an important position in its neighborhood diplomacy, said the Chinese foreign minister.
China is willing to work with Myanmar to achieve more tangible results in the building of the China-Myanmar community with a shared future, Wang said.
Wang was on a visit to Myanmar Wednesday before traveling to Thailand to co-chair the ninth Lancang-Mekong Cooperation Foreign Ministers' Meeting and attend the Informal Discussion Between the Foreign Ministers of China, Laos, Myanmar and Thailand.
Also on Wednesday, Wang met with Chairman of Myanmar's State Administration Council (SAC) Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, and Myanmar's Deputy Prime Minister and Union Minister for Foreign Affairs U Than Swe. ■
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, meets with Than Shwe, former chairman of the Myanmar State Peace and Development Council, in Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar, Aug. 14, 2024. (Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China/Handout via Xinhua)