VIENTIANE, Dec. 4 (Xinhua) -- The China-Laos Railway marked a new chapter in its historic journey on Tuesday with celebration of its third anniversary of operation. The international railway, stretching 1,035 km from Kunming in southwest China's Yunnan Province to the Lao capital Vientiane, has become a vital artery of regional connectivity.
Behind its seamless operation are countless Lao staff members and workers who faithfully performed their duties from day one, aiming to maintain and operate the China-Laos Railway to the highest standards.
With the mentorship and assistance of the Chinese professional staff, a group of Lao train drivers, attendants, and maintenance workers has emerged as a skilled workforce, bringing new vitality to the country's railway industry.
Somxay Laoliou, a 24-year-old train driver on the China-Laos Railway, remembered his driving on the first train of the line together with his Chinese mentor three years ago at the railway's opening ceremony.
"I feel so proud to become one of the first Lao train drivers," he said.
This year, Somxay became one of the first batch of young drivers qualified to drive the train independently. At the China-Laos Railway driver certificate awarding ceremony on Aug. 5, he took a solemn oath to ensure the safe operation of train services and strive to be a part of the locomotive leading the railway development of his country.
Somxay emphasized the invaluable support from his Chinese mentor in his professional development and his resolve to pass on the knowledge and spirit to future newbie colleagues.
Three years ago, Koua Moua, then 21 years old, became a train attendant on the China-Laos Railway. Working with her Chinese mentor, she quickly adapted to the job.
"My mentor taught me knowledge in passenger service and safety assurance. She also taught me how to enhance my emergency response capabilities. I can now handle unexpected situations on the train independently," Koua said.
Once during a trip, two passengers suddenly suffered acute abdominal pain. She immediately used the broadcast system on the train to seek a doctor, and fortunately, there was one just in the neighboring carriage. With the doctor's help, the passengers' symptoms finally improved.
Koua has been promoted to train conductor in recognition of her hard work and responsibility. She said over the past three years, she has gained not only professional growth but also a great sense of happiness.
"I have learned different languages and made many like-minded friends. Whenever I see happy smiles on the passengers' faces, I feel that all the effort is worthwhile," she said.
Phonephimon Monechandy, a 27-year-old maintenance worker on the China-Laos Railway, inspects 17 trains daily on average. She and her team diligently check the locomotives upon their return to the barn, amid the extreme heat of the engine compartments.
"When the locomotive arrives, the temperature inside can reach as high as 40 to 50 degrees Celsius, but we have to immediately enter the engine section to start maintenance. Each inspection takes 30 to 45 minutes, and by the time we're done, our clothes are already soaked through," she said.
She remembered the days when Chinese mentors would teach them one-on-one, patiently explaining basic knowledge until they understood. She also learned how to handle malfunctions from his Chinese mentor.
"My mentor said maintenance work is extremely important. We must ensure the safety of cargo and passengers, guaranteeing that people's lives and property are absolutely secure," Phonephimon added.
Since the construction of the railway started, the Chinese side has trained hundreds of railway professionals for Laos, and many experts were dispatched to guide and assist the Lao side in carrying out railway operations.
In October last year, the China-aided Lao Railway Vocational and Technical College opened as the first railway vocational technical institution in a Southeast Asian country, filling a gap in professional railway technical education in Laos.
According to the Laos-China Railway Co., Ltd., which is responsible for operating the Lao section of the China-Laos Railway, as of September 2024, there are 992 Lao employees working on the front lines of the China-Laos Railway, including 14 train drivers, 84 train service personnel, and 40 locomotive maintenance and preparation workers, among others. ■