YANGON, Jan. 19 (Xinhua) -- As Chinese New Year approaches, Chinatown and major shopping malls in Yangon, Myanmar are adorned with vibrant red decorations.
Festive markets celebrating the Spring Festival have also been set up at major shopping hubs like Myanmar Plaza and Times City, attracting visitors from all walks of life who are eager to shop and experience Chinese culture.
Among the visitors was Ko Shan Lay, 40, who attended the festive market at Times City with his family on Saturday. Enchanted by the lion dance performance, he followed the dancers through the market area, holding the hand of his preschool-aged son.
"I'm really happy to see the lion dance here," he said. "In these stressful times, such entertainment is uplifting," Ko Shan Lay said.
The festive markets display a wide array of goods, including clothing, bags, shoes, food, books, and electronic products, with some items offered at discounted prices.
Ko Tu Tu, leader of the Feng Yi lion and dragon dance troupe, performing at the Times City's festive market, said, "We perform lion and dragon dances here almost every year." He said that his team, established about eight years ago, is performing with over 30 members this year.
He also expressed his joy at the recognition of Chinese New Year as an official public holiday in Myanmar, which starts this year, saying that the festival is a significant day for Chinese people.
Yangon's most bustling Chinese New Year festive market in the Chinatown has not been held for years. This year, it will be held from Jan. 25 to Jan. 31, with lion and dragon dances, various entertainment programs, children's playgrounds, photo areas, and numerous sales booths.
Shops in the Chinatown offer lanterns, red envelopes, traditional Chinese food like Nian Gao and dumplings, Chinese clothing, incense, prayer items, and New Year sweets.
Among the shoppers were Ma Ngu Wah Tun, 44, from North Dagon township, and her daughter Cindy, who are selecting a Hanfu outfit for the school's Chinese New Year celebrations.
"I'm here to buy Chinese clothing for my daughter," said Ma Ngu Wah Tun. "She'll be performing in Chinese attire during her school's Chinese New Year celebrations."
Ma Ngu Wah Tun, who is working in an export and import company that deals with Chinese businesses, said that her daughter has been learning Chinese since kindergarten and can speak Chinese well now.
Ma Ngu Wah Tun also said that she embraced the recognition of Chinese New Year as a public holiday in Myanmar.
"I'll be singing during the Chinese New Year celebrations at our school. We will also have a snake-themed party," said Cindy.
"The things I like most about the Chinese New Year is the color red, which symbolizes prosperity in Chinese culture. I also like the lanterns and Hanfu outfits," she said.
Cindy also expressed her love for Chinese folk songs, which she finds soothing. "As for Chinese food, I like dumplings, especially the ones with chicken," she added.
The Chinese New Year 2025, the Year of the Snake, falls on Jan. 29. ■