Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2023-10-26 21:08:00
BOGOTA, Oct. 25 (Xinhua) -- Colombian President Gustavo Francisco Petro Urrego is in Beijing for a state visit this week, as many in Colombia are closely watching his maiden trip there.
"President Petro's visit to China can be deeply transformative for Colombia in a very positive way," said David Castrillon Kerrigan, an international relations academic at the Externado University of Colombia.
Since the establishment of diplomatic ties 43 years ago, bilateral relations between China and Colombia have stood the test of international changes and maintained a sound momentum of development.
According to this senior researcher, the visits of previous presidents, beginning with former Colombian President Ernesto Samper Pizano in 1996, have paved the way towards a more comprehensive relationship between Colombia and China.
Chinese imports from Colombia have risen significantly in the last few years, with China becoming the South American nation's second-biggest trading partner. According to data from Chinese customs authorities, in 2022, bilateral trade in goods amounted to 22.64 billion U.S. dollars, up 13.4 percent year-on-year.
Over the past year, Petro, who assumed presidency in August 2022, has consistently emphasized the government's commitment to carry out profound transformations and turn Colombia into a "World Power of Life" by implementing policies that put nature first and focus on decarbonization, an urgent necessity for the survival of human beings.
China has built the largest installed renewable energy capacity and the largest market for electric vehicles in the world, presenting infinite possibilities of cooperation with Colombia, the fourth-largest economy in Latin America.
To Kerrigan's great delight, an increasing number of Chinese companies are coming to this Latin American country and are actively participating in tendering and bidding for solar parks and other new energy projects.
In an interview with Xinhua before President Petro's departure for Beijing, Guillermo Puyana, president of Colombia China Friendship Association, expressed his belief that joining the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) would be the best bet for Colombia to realize its dreams, like the environmental dream of having greener mountains, bluer waters and clearer skies.
During the visit in China, Petro said Colombia is ready to synergize its geographical advantage and its development strategies with the BRI, and strengthen cooperation in infrastructure and clean energy.
Petro aims to enhance Colombia's involvement in pressing global issues such as peace, development, climate change, and forest conservation, said Puyana, emphasizing that China holds a significant role in these fields, given its commitment to promoting global fairness by guaranteeing that developing countries have access to global public goods.
"There are too many things in common between Colombia and China, and the prospect for cooperation has never been presented in such a stirring way," concluded Puyana.
Luis Diego Monsalve, former ambassador of Colombia to China, emphasized the profound significance of Petro's visit to China as the head of state.
Monsalve told Xinhua on Tuesday that a state visit is always very important because it brings two countries closer, voicing his hope that important cooperation projects would emerge from this unique visit.
"It is a common agenda to protect the environment, to improve living conditions against global warming, and to have better energy sources. In all these fields China is a world leader and could greatly support Colombia. So I think that if projects and agreements emerge in these fields it will mean a lot for Colombia," said the former ambassador.
During President Petro's visit, China and Colombia announced the elevation of bilateral relations to a strategic partnership, and a number of bilateral cooperation documents were signed. ■