Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2023-12-15 11:11:00
BUENOS AIRES, Dec. 14 (Xinhua) -- Argentina's new Economy Minister Luis Caputo acknowledged the government's "fiscal shock" therapy to fix the ailing economy will make life "tough" for average Argentineans in the coming months.
In a televised interview Wednesday night, Caputo defended a package of measures unveiled earlier this week since President Javier Milei took office Sunday.
"We are convinced that a strong and credible fiscal anchor, added to what we are doing, is going to stabilize" the economy, Caputo said.
Among the 10 measures were a sharp devaluation in the local currency peso's official exchange rate, cuts in government spending and subsidies for transportation and energy, and a halt to public projects.
Caputo said the ministry is creating the conditions to attract U.S. dollars "because continued capital flight is very costly."
Financial markets reacted well to the government's strategy, said Caputo, describing it as "an enormous vote of confidence."
Another immediate positive impact was that the difference between the official and unofficial exchange rate "went from 20 to 25 percent. The gap is at the same levels as December 2019, when the last administration started," said Caputo.
Caputo admitted the coming months "are going to be tough" for people, with notable increases in the cost of transportation, energy and public services.
"What people are going to pay for are the consequences of the previous economic policy," he said, adding, "That is what happens when they insist on populist policies that do not work."
But the measures will prevent "a catastrophe," including an inflationary rate of up to 15,000 percent that loomed on the horizon, he said.
Regarding Argentina's debt service payments to the International Monetary Fund, Caputo said the government is committed to meeting its obligations.
"We are reformulating the agreement that was already broken due to the non-compliance of the last administration," Caputo added. ■