Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2023-10-30 09:10:45
People walk on a damaged street after being attacked by Hurricane Otis in Acapulco, state of Guerrero, Mexico, Oct. 28. 2023. The death toll from Hurricane Otis in the Mexican state of Guerrero increased to 48 with 36 still missing, state governor Evelyn Salgado said Sunday. Mexico's civil defense agency said in a statement that 43 died in the resort city of Acapulco and five in nearby Coyuca de Benitez. (Photo by Dassaev Tellez Adame/Xinhua)
MEXICO CITY, Oct. 29 (Xinhua) -- The death toll from Hurricane Otis in the Mexican state of Guerrero increased to 43 with 36 still missing, state governor Evelyn Salgado said Sunday.
"It is still a preliminary figure," the governor told President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador over the phone.
Otis, a category 5 storm, hit the Pacific coast of Guerrero on Wednesday, causing severe damage, especially in the seaside resort of Acapulco, one of Mexico's main tourist destinations.
Lopez Obrador said that the state-owned Federal Electricity Commission had put 3,211 electric poles back up, out of the 10,000 that were knocked down in the port of Acapulco alone.
He estimated that the electricity supply in Acapulco will be completely restored by Monday night to guarantee the supply of fuels such as gasoline, diesel and domestic gas. ■
People walk on a damaged street after being attacked by Hurricane Otis in Acapulco, state of Guerrero, Mexico, Oct. 28. 2023. The death toll from Hurricane Otis in the Mexican state of Guerrero increased to 48 with 36 still missing, state governor Evelyn Salgado said Sunday.
Mexico's civil defense agency said in a statement that 43 died in the resort city of Acapulco and five in nearby Coyuca de Benitez. (Photo by Dassaev Tellez Adame/Xinhua)
People wait outside a gas station after being attacked by Hurricane Otis in Acapulco, state of Guerrero, Mexico, Oct. 28. 2023. The death toll from Hurricane Otis in the Mexican state of Guerrero increased to 48 with 36 still missing, state governor Evelyn Salgado said Sunday.
Mexico's civil defense agency said in a statement that 43 died in the resort city of Acapulco and five in nearby Coyuca de Benitez. (Photo by Dassaev Tellez Adame/Xinhua)