Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-06-27 13:51:30
LA PAZ, June 27 (Xinhua) -- The attorney general's office of Bolivia has accused former general commander of the Army Juan Jose Zuniga of terrorism and armed rebellion, following a failed coup against President Luis Arce on Wednesday, according to media reports.
The office issued a warrant for Zuniga's arrest after he was detained in the city of La Paz in an operation coordinated and presided over by Deputy Interior Minister Jhonny Aguilera. Arce also reportedly named new heads of the military.
At least 9 people were wounded by bullets in the attempted coup, local media quoted the country's Interior Ministry as saying.
The Prosecutor's Office for the Department of La Paz immediately formed a commission of prosecutors to thoroughly investigate the attempted coup.
Jose Luis Tarquino, head of communication of the Attorney General's Office, announced the beginning of a criminal investigation against Zuniga and others involved in the attempted coup.
"Given the latest events that occurred in the city of La Paz, the Attorney General ordered the initiation of all legal actions that correspond to the criminal investigation against Gen. Juan Jose Zuniga and all other participants in the events," Tarquino said, adding that an immigration alert was issued against Zuniga to prevent his possible escape from the country.
Amid the tension and uncertainty, Arce and his cabinet reaffirmed their firm stance against any attempts at destabilization, and pledged to maintain peace and order in the country.
Arce, flanked by his cabinet and Vice President David Choquehuanca, also called on the Bolivian people to mobilize against an attempted coup and defend democracy on Wednesday.
Zuniga, led the troops at Plaza Murillo and other groups of uniformed men who forcibly entered the old Government Palace, adjacent to the government headquarters.
Wearing a war uniform, the military leader got out of an armored vehicle and told journalists at the scene that the move was in response to an alleged atrocity against the Armed Forces.
"Enough of impoverishing our country, enough of humiliating the military. We have come to express our annoyance," he said.
The incident happened just hours after a rumor circulated that Zuniga was being relieved of his position as commander of the Armed Forces for having made controversial political statements against former president Evo Morales.
The presence of armed troops has generated a strong response from citizens, who have begun to gather in the streets surrounding Plaza Murillo, the epicenter of Bolivia's political power, to denounce the military move.
Representatives of social organizations in different parts of the country also demonstrated in defense of democracy, joining the president's call to protect the constitutional order. ■