Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-04-03 20:32:00
TEGUCIGALPA, April 3 (Xinhua) -- Honduran Foreign Minister Enrique Reina praised the establishment of diplomatic relations between Honduras and China in 2023 and the subsequent deepening of ties.
In an interview with Xinhua marking the anniversary of establishing bilateral diplomatic relations on March 26 last year, Reina said that by recognizing the one-China principle, Honduras undertook an act of "historical justice."
Noting that Honduras has held the presidency pro tempore of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC) since March and the year 2024 also marks the 10th anniversary of the China-CELAC Forum, Reina said this year provides a great opportunity "that could favor the strengthening of the forum and the emergence of beneficial initiatives and results for China, Honduras and other CELAC members."
"Seeing the possibility that the leaders of Latin America and the Caribbean at the highest level, together with the leaders of China, can meet again, meet and find these ties of cooperation, is one of the priorities that Honduras has as part of its pro tempore presidency" of CELAC, said Reina.
The China-Honduras ties have made "positive advances" in many areas, considering the relationship is "barely" a year old, he said.
In Reina's opinion, a high point in the development of China-Honduras ties was Honduran President Xiomara Castro's visit to China in June 2023. During her meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping, the two countries signed 17 bilateral cooperation and exchange agreements.
Another notable chapter in this first year of diplomatic relations was Honduras's participation as the Guest Country of Honor at the sixth China International Import Expo.
More than 40 Honduran businesses in different sectors participated in the expo, which "was a great opportunity for these companies to begin contacting Chinese companies and start this commercial relationship," said Reina.
He believes that China and Honduras can cooperate in various fields.
Reina expressed Honduras's willingness to participate in and support Chinese initiatives to bolster global cooperation, such as the Belt and Road Initiative, the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative.
"These are initiatives that come together in the spirit of democratizing the international system," he said. ■