Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-06-27 06:14:15
Bolivian President Luis Arce (4th L) gestures to people on a balcony of the government palace in La Paz, Bolivia, June 26, 2024.
Bolivian President Luis Arce on Wednesday denounced what appeared to be an attempted coup as groups of heavily armed soldiers marched on the plaza outside the government headquarters in La Paz. (Photo by Javier Mamani/Xinhua)
LA PAZ, June 26 (Xinhua) -- Bolivian President Luis Arce on Wednesday denounced what appeared to be an attempted coup as groups of heavily armed soldiers marched on the plaza outside the government headquarters in La Paz.
"We denounce the irregular mobilizations of some units of the Bolivian Army. Democracy must be respected," he posted on social media, amid the unusual deployment of troops accompanied by assault vehicles.
The minister of the presidency, Maria Nela Prada, also condemned what she described as "an attempted coup d'etat" and the breakdown of constitutional order in Bolivia.
"I want to denounce before the Bolivian people and the international community an attempted coup d'etat" in Bolivia, she said in a message recorded from her cell phone.
The minister added that the Bolivian people "are on alert" to defend their democracy, "which is the most valuable thing we have," and "this is precisely what we must avoid: that a coup d'etat, a rupture of the constitutional order, be carried out again in our country."
The general commander of the Army, Juan Jose Zuniga, led the troops at Murillo Plaza and other groups of uniformed men who forcibly entered the old Government Palace, adjacent to the government headquarters.
Zuniga, wearing a war uniform, got out of an armored vehicle and told journalists at the scene that the move was in response to an alleged atrocity against the Armed Forces.
"Enough of impoverishing our country, enough of humiliating the military. We have come to express our annoyance," he said.
The incident happened just hours after a rumor circulated that Zuniga was being relieved of his position as commander of the Armed Forces for having made controversial political statements against former president Evo Morales.
The next few hours would be crucial in determining the course of events and the stability of the country, according to local media reports. ■
Juan Jose Zuniga (C), former general commander of the Army, is pictured in La Paz, Bolivia, June 26, 2024.
Bolivian President Luis Arce on Wednesday denounced what appeared to be an attempted coup as groups of heavily armed soldiers marched on the plaza outside the government headquarters in La Paz. (Photo by Roberto Aranda/Xinhua)
A military vehicle is seen near the government palace in La Paz, Bolivia, June 26, 2024.
Bolivian President Luis Arce on Wednesday denounced what appeared to be an attempted coup as groups of heavily armed soldiers marched on the plaza outside the government headquarters in La Paz. (Photo by Roberto Aranda/Xinhua)
Bolivian President Luis Arce (C) speaks to people on a balcony of the government palace in La Paz, Bolivia, June 26, 2024.
Bolivian President Luis Arce on Wednesday denounced what appeared to be an attempted coup as groups of heavily armed soldiers marched on the plaza outside the government headquarters in La Paz. (Photo by Roberto Aranda/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on June 26, 2024 shows a plaza near the government palace in La Paz, Bolivia, June 26, 2024.
Bolivian President Luis Arce on Wednesday denounced what appeared to be an attempted coup as groups of heavily armed soldiers marched on the plaza outside the government headquarters in La Paz. (Photo by Javier Mamani/Xinhua)
Bolivian soldiers gather near the government palace in La Paz, Bolivia, June 26, 2024.
Bolivian President Luis Arce on Wednesday denounced what appeared to be an attempted coup as groups of heavily armed soldiers marched on the plaza outside the government headquarters in La Paz. (Photo by Roberto Aranda/Xinhua)