Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-11-19 16:01:15
RIO DE JANEIRO, Nov. 19 (Xinhua) -- The G20 launched the Global Alliance against Hunger and Poverty to support the implementation of country-led, country-owned programs aiming at reducing hunger and poverty worldwide, contributing to revitalizing global partnerships for sustainable development, according to the G20 Rio de Janeiro Leaders' Declaration released on Tuesday.
The G20 leaders renewed their commitment to work towards sustainably increasing agricultural productivity and reducing food loss and waste, and recognized the interdependence of countries in achieving food security and nutrition, food safety, and sustainability through open trade policies consistent with WTO rules.
They reiterated their commitment to the United Nations Development Agenda and reaffirmed their commitment to help developing countries better integrate into the global industrial, value and supply chains and accelerate their industrialization and modernization process.
The leaders also acknowledged the impact of corruption on sustainable development, reaffirming their shared commitments and dedication to lead by example in the global efforts against corruption and related illicit financial flows.
They reiterated the central coordinating role of the World Health Organization (WHO) in the global health architecture and voiced support for drafting a WHO convention, agreement, or other international instrument on pandemic prevention, preparedness and response, with full respect for sovereignty of individual states.
The leaders emphasized the critical role of quality education and training, including digital education, as an enabler for sustainable and socio-economic growth, recognizing culture's power and intrinsic value in nurturing solidarity, dialogue, collaboration and cooperation.
They called for support of open and inclusive dialogue on the return and restitution of cultural property, including illegally exported property.
The leaders also reaffirmed the importance of open and mutually beneficial international cooperation in research and innovation, according to the declaration.
The G20 Rio de Janeiro Leaders' Declaration was adopted at the 19th G20 Leaders' Summit which kicked off on Monday. ■