Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-09-12 12:23:15
This file photo taken on Dec. 6, 2023 shows former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori (C) in Lima, Peru. Former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori died on Wednesday at the age of 86, according to Peruvian media reports. (Xinhua/Mariana Bazo)
LIMA, Sept. 11 (Xinhua) -- Former Peruvian president Alberto Fujimori died Wednesday at the age of 86 in Lima, "after a long battle against cancer," confirmed his daughter and political leader Keiko Fujimori.
"Our father, Alberto Fujimori, has just departed to meet the Lord," Keiko wrote on X, formerly Twitter.
Hours before his death, the spokesperson for the Fuerza Popular party, Miguel Torres, said that the former president was in a "delicate" state and going through "a difficult time."
Fujimori, who served as Peru's president from 1990 to 2000, was released from prison last December, where he was serving a 25-year sentence for crimes against humanity. ■
A policeman stands guard outside the residence of former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori in Lima, Peru, Sept. 11, 2024. Former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori died on Wednesday at the age of 86, according to Peruvian media reports. (Xinhua/Mariana Bazo)
Media reporters gather outside the residence of former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori in Lima, Peru, Sept. 11, 2024. Former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori died on Wednesday at the age of 86, according to Peruvian media reports. (Xinhua/Mariana Bazo)
This file photo taken on May 15, 2015 shows former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori in Lima, Peru. Former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori died on Wednesday at the age of 86, according to Peruvian media reports. (Photo by Luis Camacho/Xinhua)
A medical staff leaves the residence of former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori in Lima, Peru, Sept. 11, 2024. Former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori died on Wednesday at the age of 86, according to Peruvian media reports. (Xinhua/Mariana Bazo)
A woman wipes tears outside the residence of former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori in Lima, Peru, Sept. 11, 2024. Former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori died on Wednesday at the age of 86, according to Peruvian media reports. (Xinhua/Mariana Bazo)
People cry outside the residence of former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori in Lima, Peru, Sept. 11, 2024. Former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori died on Wednesday at the age of 86, according to Peruvian media reports. (Xinhua/Mariana Bazo)