Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-11-25 12:38:15
Yamandu Orsi, the presidential candidate of left-wing opposition coalition the Broad Front, delivers a speech after winning the presidential election in Montevideo, Uruguay, Nov. 24, 2024. Uruguayan President Luis Lacalle Pou on Sunday recognized the opposition candidate Yamandu Orsi as president-elect, who will succeed him in the 2025-2030 period after Orsi won the second round of the presidential elections against Alvaro Delgado. (Photo by Nicolas Celaya/Xinhua)
MONTEVIDEO, Nov. 24 (Xinhua) -- Uruguayan President Luis Lacalle Pou on Sunday recognized the opposition candidate Yamandu Orsi as president-elect, who will succeed him in the 2025-2030 period after Orsi won the second round of the presidential elections against Alvaro Delgado.
Delgado of the National Party also recognized Orsi of the left-wing opposition coalition the Broad Front as president-elect.
"I want to send from here, with all this coalition government, with all these actors of the coalition, a big hug and a greeting to Yamandu Orsi and to the Broad Front," Delgado said in his speech alongside the leaders of the ruling coalition in the capital Montevideo.
"We can congratulate the winner with sadness but without a guilt complex, we must respect the sovereign decision above all things," he added.
President Lacalle Pou said on X that he called Orsi "to congratulate him as president-elect of our country." ■
Yamandu Orsi, the presidential candidate of left-wing opposition coalition the Broad Front, delivers a speech after winning the presidential election in Montevideo, Uruguay, Nov. 24, 2024. Uruguayan President Luis Lacalle Pou on Sunday recognized the opposition candidate Yamandu Orsi as president-elect, who will succeed him in the 2025-2030 period after Orsi won the second round of the presidential elections against Alvaro Delgado. (Photo by Nicolas Celaya/Xinhua)
Yamandu Orsi, the presidential candidate of left-wing opposition coalition the Broad Front, delivers a speech after winning the presidential election in Montevideo, Uruguay, Nov. 24, 2024. Uruguayan President Luis Lacalle Pou on Sunday recognized the opposition candidate Yamandu Orsi as president-elect, who will succeed him in the 2025-2030 period after Orsi won the second round of the presidential elections against Alvaro Delgado. (Photo by Nicolas Celaya/Xinhua)