Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-10-28 16:42:45
Uruguayan presidential candidate from the National Party, Alvaro Delgado (3rd, L), speaks on a stage in Plaza Varela in Montevideo, Uruguay on Oct. 27, 2024. Uruguay's two leading presidential candidates will face off in a run-off on Nov. 24, as neither secured the majority needed in Sunday's general elections, according to the country's electoral authorities. (Xinhua/Martin Zabala)
MONTEVIDEO, Oct. 28 (Xinhua) -- Uruguay's two leading presidential candidates will face off in a run-off on Nov. 24, as neither secured the majority needed in Sunday's general elections, according to the country's electoral authorities.
With 92 percent of the votes scrutinized by the electoral court early Monday, Yamandu Orsi of the left-wing opposition coalition the Broad Front (FA) received 43.5 percent, while Alvaro Delgado of the center-right National Party garnered 27 percent.
Orsi, 57, called for Uruguayans to unite and make a "last effort" to win the runoff in a speech to thousands of FA supporters in the Old City of Montevideo. "We are going in these 27 days for that last effort, with more desire than ever, more standing than ever," he said.
Delgado, 55, also called for winning the runoff at an event flanked by his supporters, expressing his desire to "give Uruguay a course that allowed us to generate prosperity and emerge together from the most difficult moments, such as crises."
More than 2.7 million Uruguayans were called to the polls to elect a successor to President Luis Lacalle Pou and renew the parliament for the next five years. ■
Uruguayan presidential candidate from the National Party, Alvaro Delgado, speaks on a stage in Plaza Varela in Montevideo, Uruguay on Oct. 27, 2024. Uruguay's two leading presidential candidates will face off in a run-off on Nov. 24, as neither secured the majority needed in Sunday's general elections, according to the country's electoral authorities. (Xinhua/Martin Zabala)
Yamandu Orsi, presidential candidate of the left-wing opposition coalition the Broad Front, speaks in Montevideo, Uruguay on Oct. 27, 2024. Uruguay's two leading presidential candidates will face off in a run-off on Nov. 24, as neither secured the majority needed in Sunday's general elections, according to the country's electoral authorities. (Photo by Nicolas Celaya/Xinhua)
Yamandu Orsi, presidential candidate of the left-wing opposition coalition the Broad Front, speaks in Montevideo, Uruguay on Oct. 27, 2024. Uruguay's two leading presidential candidates will face off in a run-off on Nov. 24, as neither secured the majority needed in Sunday's general elections, according to the country's electoral authorities. (Photo by Nicolas Celaya/Xinhua)