Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-11-13 00:49:00
This photo shows the think tank report "A New Model for Human Advancement and Its Global Significance" released during the Global South Media and Think Tank Forum in Sao Paulo, Brazil. The Global South Media and Think Tank Forum was held here on Monday and Tuesday, during which the report "A New Model for Human Advancement and Its Global Significance" was launched. The report provides a comprehensive analysis of the distinct meanings, practices, and worldwide importance of Chinese modernization, showcasing a novel framework for human progress. (Xinhua/Li He)
SAO PAULO, Nov. 12 (Xinhua) -- The Global South Media and Think Tank Forum was held here on Monday and Tuesday, during which the report "A New Model for Human Advancement and Its Global Significance" was launched.
The report provides a comprehensive analysis of the distinct meanings, practices, and worldwide importance of Chinese modernization, showcasing a novel framework for human progress.
Under the theme Chinese modernization creates a new form of human civilization, the report analyzes the common challenges facing the development of human civilizations. It explains how Chinese modernization creates a new form of human civilization. The report provides a valuable reference for countries worldwide, including in the Global South, to promote modernization.
The report, divided into three chapters, answers the following questions through vivid and detailed case studies and data: What has happened to the world? How should we respond? Where is humanity headed?
Numerous forum participants agreed that Chinese modernization has created a new form of human civilization and offered China's solution to the progress of human civilizations.
The report was written by the joint research group at the Institute of Party History and Literature of the CPC Central Committee and New China Research.
The forum was guided by the State Council Information Office and jointly organized by Xinhua News Agency and Brazil Communication Company, attracting about 350 participants from 170 media organizations, think tanks, government departments, and enterprises from more than 70 countries and regions worldwide. ■
Attendees read think tank report "A New Model for Human Advancement and Its Global Significance" during the Global South Media and Think Tank Forum in Sao Paulo, Brazil, Nov. 11, 2024. The Global South Media and Think Tank Forum was held here on Monday and Tuesday, during which the report "A New Model for Human Advancement and Its Global Significance" was launched.
The report provides a comprehensive analysis of the distinct meanings, practices, and worldwide importance of Chinese modernization, showcasing a novel framework for human progress. (Xinhua/Wang Tiancong)
Attendees read think tank report "A New Model for Human Advancement and Its Global Significance" during the Global South Media and Think Tank Forum in Sao Paulo, Brazil, Nov. 11, 2024. The Global South Media and Think Tank Forum was held here on Monday and Tuesday, during which the report "A New Model for Human Advancement and Its Global Significance" was launched.
The report provides a comprehensive analysis of the distinct meanings, practices, and worldwide importance of Chinese modernization, showcasing a novel framework for human progress. (Xinhua/Wang Tiancong)
This photo shows the think tank report "A New Model for Human Advancement and Its Global Significance" released during the Global South Media and Think Tank Forum in Sao Paulo, Brazil. The Global South Media and Think Tank Forum was held here on Monday and Tuesday, during which the report "A New Model for Human Advancement and Its Global Significance" was launched.
The report provides a comprehensive analysis of the distinct meanings, practices, and worldwide importance of Chinese modernization, showcasing a novel framework for human progress. (Xinhua/Li He)