Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-01-19 16:16:45
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, meets with Brazilian Foreign Minister Mauro Vieira in Brasilia, Brazil, Jan. 18, 2024. (Photo by Lucio Tavora/Xinhua)
BRASILIA, Jan. 18 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with Brazilian Foreign Minister Mauro Vieira here on Thursday, with both sides speaking highly of the strategic significance and overall impact of bilateral cooperation.
This year is of special significance as it marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Brazil and China, Vieira said, adding that in recent years, Brazil-China relations have developed steadily, and cooperation areas have been continuously expanded.
Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva's historic visit to China last year yielded fruitful results, said Vieira.
Brazil is willing to strengthen communication and coordination with China, implement the important consensus reached by the two heads of state, give full play to the role of cooperation mechanisms between the two countries at all levels and in all fields, and further deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, said Vieira.
Brazil looks forward to taking the opportunity of hosting the Group of 20 (G20) Leaders' Summit in Rio de Janeiro to strengthen high-level exchanges between Brazil and China, inject strong impetus into bilateral relations, and lead Brazil-China friendly cooperation towards the next 50 years with broader prospects, added Vieira.
During his successful visit to China last year, President Lula and Chinese President Xi Jinping had in-depth communication, established solid mutual trust, and laid out strategic plans and guidance for the development of China-Brazil comprehensive strategic partnership, said Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee.
The Chinese side cherishes the friendship between China and Brazil, and is willing to take the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations as an opportunity to prepare for high-level exchanges between the two sides at the next stage as well as celebrations for the anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations, and elevate the China-Brazil comprehensive strategic partnership to a new level, enabling it to display new vitality and open up new horizons, Wang said.
As the world has entered a new period of turbulence and transformation, China and Brazil, the two biggest developing countries and representatives of emerging market economies in the Eastern and Western hemispheres, should strengthen unity and cooperation to jointly respond to global challenges, Wang said.
China supports Brazil in hosting the G20 Leaders' Summit, supports Brazil in playing a greater role in international and regional affairs, and is willing to work with Brazil to build an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, security for all and common prosperity, so as to take good care of Earth -- the only planet that hosts human life, Wang noted.
The two sides pledged to jointly make the upcoming fourth China-Brazil Foreign Ministerial-Level Comprehensive Strategic Dialogue a success, where they would conduct in-depth strategic communication on a wide range of bilateral and multilateral issues. ■