Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-03-09 10:25:45
SANTIAGO, March 8 (Xinhua) -- Chile manager Ricardo Gareca has left veterans Arturo Vidal and Gary Medel out of his squad for friendlies against Albania and France.
Vidal has battled a leg muscle injury since joining Colo-Colo from Athletico Paranaense in January while Medel has struggled for form and fitness with Vasco da Gama.
"This strictly has to do with looking at other options," Gareca told a news conference on Friday. "It does not mean that any player is ruled out. This is simply the squad for these two games."
Chile will meet Albania in Parma, Italy, on March 22 and France in Marseille four days later.
The matches will provide one of the last chances for Gareca to test his squad for the Copa America, to be played in the United States from June 20 to July 14.
Gareca also left out Sheffield United's Ben Brereton Diaz, expressing concern about the English-born striker's ability to communicate with his teammates.
"It caught my attention that he doesn't speak Spanish well," the former Peru head coach said. "It is not an impediment, but I would like him to speak Spanish. I consider it essential to be able to communicate on and off the pitch."
As expected, the 24-man squad includes Inter Milan forward Alexis Sanchez, Atletico Mineiro winger Eduardo Vargas and Real Betis goalkeeper Claudio Bravo.
Chile squad:
Goalkeepers: Brayan Cortes (Colo-Colo), Claudio Bravo (Real Betis/Spain), Gabriel Arias (Racing/Argentina).
Defenders: Paulo Diaz (River Plate/Argentina), Guillermo Maripan (Monaco/France), Igor Lichnovsky (America/Mexico), Gabriel Suazo (Toulouse/France), Matias Catalan (Talleres/Argentina), Mauricio Isla (Independiente/Argentina), Nicolas Fernandez (Audax Italiano) and Thomas Galdames (Godoy Cruz/Argentina).
Midfielders: Erick Pulgar (Flamengo/Brazil), Marcelino Nunez (Norwich/England), Rodrigo Echeverria (Huracan/Argentina), Javier Altamirano (Estudiantes de La Plata/Argentina), Cesar Perez (La Calera), Dario Osorio (Midtjylland/Denmark), Diego Valdes (America/Mexico) and Carlos Palacios (Colo-Colo).
Forwards: Alexis Sanchez (Inter Milan/Italy), Victor Davila (CSKA Moscow/Russia), Cristian Zavala (Colo Colo), Eduardo Vargas (Atletico Mineiro/Brazil) and Marcos Bolados (Colo-Colo). ■