Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-10-27 23:18:00
A voter casts her ballot for general elections at a polling station in Montevideo, Uruguay, Oct. 27, 2024. Polls opened on Sunday morning in Uruguay's general elections that will pick a successor to President Luis Lacalle Pou and renew the parliament for the next five years. (Xinhua/Martin Zabala)
MONTEVIDEO, Oct. 27 (Xinhua) -- Polls opened on Sunday morning in Uruguay's general elections that will pick a successor to President Luis Lacalle Pou and renew the parliament for the next five years.
Ballot stations opened at 8 a.m. local time (1100 GMT) and will close at 7:30 p.m., with an eventual one-hour extension if there are voters left on the premises.
In total, 2,727,120 voters over 18 are eligible to vote.
Yamandu Orsi, the former mayor of Canelones and former secretary of the Presidency Alvaro Delgado, are expected to lead the vote. If no presidential candidate gets more than 50 percent of the vote, a runoff will be held on Nov. 24 between Sunday's top two finishers.
Primary ballot data is expected to be available before midnight Sunday. ■
(241028) -- CANELONES, Oct. 28, 2024 (Xinhua) -- Yamandu Orsi (1st L, front), the presidential candidate of the left-wing opposition coalition the Broad Front, casts his ballot for general elections at a polling station in Canelones, Uruguay, Oct. 27, 2024. Polls opened on Sunday morning in Uruguay's general elections that will pick a successor to President Luis Lacalle Pou and renew the parliament for the next five years. (Photo by Nicolas Celaya/Xinhua)
(241028) -- CANELONES, Oct. 28, 2024 (Xinhua) -- Uruguayan President Luis Lacalle Pou (front) casts his ballot for general elections at a polling station in Canelones, Uruguay, Oct. 27, 2024. Polls opened on Sunday morning in Uruguay's general elections that will pick a successor to President Luis Lacalle Pou and renew the parliament for the next five years. (Photo by Nicolas Celaya/Xinhua)
Alvaro Delgado (front), the presidential candidate of the ruling coalition led by the National Party, casts his ballot for general elections at a polling station in Montevideo, Uruguay, Oct. 27, 2024. Polls opened on Sunday morning in Uruguay's general elections that will pick a successor to President Luis Lacalle Pou and renew the parliament for the next five years. (Xinhua/Martin Zabala)
Voters cast their ballots for general elections at a polling station in Montevideo, Uruguay, Oct. 27, 2024. Polls opened on Sunday morning in Uruguay's general elections that will pick a successor to President Luis Lacalle Pou and renew the parliament for the next five years. (Xinhua/Martin Zabala)
Former Uruguayan President Jose Mujica casts his ballot for general elections at a polling station in Montevideo, Uruguay, Oct. 27, 2024. Polls opened on Sunday morning in Uruguay's general elections that will pick a successor to President Luis Lacalle Pou and renew the parliament for the next five years. (Xinhua/Martin Zabala)
People wait to vote for general elections at a polling station in Montevideo, Uruguay, Oct. 27, 2024. Polls opened on Sunday morning in Uruguay's general elections that will pick a successor to President Luis Lacalle Pou and renew the parliament for the next five years. (Xinhua/Martin Zabala)