Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-08-27 10:20:45
A tractor operates in a scorched field after wildfires in Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil, on Aug. 29, 2024. The economic loss caused by the wildfires in Brazil's southeastern Sao Paulo state reached up to 1 billion reals (182 million U.S. dollars) within just three days, regional governor Tarcisio de Freitas said on Monday. (Photo by Rahel Patrasso/Xinhua)
SAO PAULO, Aug. 26 (Xinhua) -- The economic loss caused by the wildfires in Brazil's southeastern Sao Paulo state reached up to 1 billion reals (182 million U.S. dollars) within just three days, regional governor Tarcisio de Freitas said on Monday.
In an interview with Brazil's GloboNews channel, the governor said the wildfires have triggered a maximum alert in more than 50 towns, including key agricultural centers like Ribeirao Preto, where the fires have now been brought under control.
At least four cities suspended classes on Monday due to the need to clear heavy ash from the area, he added.
"It is difficult to estimate the losses, but we estimate that they amount to 1 billion reals," said the governor.
"What happened had a devastating effect on agribusiness, something very sad, which is why we are going to support agribusiness...to give them a hand, since we know the importance of agribusiness to our economy," he added.
Affected by drought and extreme heat, some 2,316 wildfires have broken out in recent days, sparking fear and concern among residents in the state.
According to the National Institute for Space Research, that figure is almost seven times higher than the wildfires recorded in August of last year.
Brazil's President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva on Sunday denounced the fires as intentional, prompting the Federal Police to initiate an investigation into environmental crimes. ■
This photo taken on Aug. 29, 2024 shows a burnt sugar cane field after wildfires in Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil. The economic loss caused by the wildfires in Brazil's southeastern Sao Paulo state reached up to 1 billion reals (182 million U.S. dollars) within just three days, regional governor Tarcisio de Freitas said on Monday. (Photo by Rahel Patrasso/Xinhua)
This photo taken on Aug. 29, 2024 shows burnt plants and farmlands after wildfires in Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil. The economic loss caused by the wildfires in Brazil's southeastern Sao Paulo state reached up to 1 billion reals (182 million U.S. dollars) within just three days, regional governor Tarcisio de Freitas said on Monday. (Photo by Rahel Patrasso/Xinhua)
This photo taken on Aug. 29, 2024 shows a burnt sugar cane field after wildfires in Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil. The economic loss caused by the wildfires in Brazil's southeastern Sao Paulo state reached up to 1 billion reals (182 million U.S. dollars) within just three days, regional governor Tarcisio de Freitas said on Monday. (Photo by Rahel Patrasso/Xinhua)
This photo taken on Aug. 29, 2024 shows burnt plants and farmlands after wildfires in Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil. The economic loss caused by the wildfires in Brazil's southeastern Sao Paulo state reached up to 1 billion reals (182 million U.S. dollars) within just three days, regional governor Tarcisio de Freitas said on Monday. (Photo by Rahel Patrasso/Xinhua)
This photo taken on Aug. 29, 2024 shows burnt trees and farmlands after wildfires in Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil. The economic loss caused by the wildfires in Brazil's southeastern Sao Paulo state reached up to 1 billion reals (182 million U.S. dollars) within just three days, regional governor Tarcisio de Freitas said on Monday. (Photo by Rahel Patrasso/Xinhua)
This photo taken on Aug. 29, 2024 shows a burnt sugar cane field after wildfires in Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil. The economic loss caused by the wildfires in Brazil's southeastern Sao Paulo state reached up to 1 billion reals (182 million U.S. dollars) within just three days, regional governor Tarcisio de Freitas said on Monday. (Photo by Rahel Patrasso/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 29, 2024 shows burnt plants and farmlands after wildfires in Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil. The economic loss caused by the wildfires in Brazil's southeastern Sao Paulo state reached up to 1 billion reals (182 million U.S. dollars) within just three days, regional governor Tarcisio de Freitas said on Monday. (Photo by Rahel Patrasso/Xinhua)