Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-11-09 15:05:15
LIMA, Nov. 8 (Xinhua) -- A seminar on cooperative achievements between China and Latin America has lately been held in Peru's capital city of Lima.
The seminar, on the theme of "Moving Forward between the Wind and the Rain: Building a China-Latin America and Caribbean Community with a Shared Future," was organized on Tuesday by the Center for the Americas under the China International Communications Group (CICG), China Yangtze Power Co., Ltd. and the China International Book Trading Corporation (CIBTC).
Present at the event were students, scholars, officials, politicians, entrepreneurs, and former ministers from Peru, as well as Chinese and Peruvian business representatives.
China has eradicated extreme poverty and played a leading role in global poverty reduction efforts, raising the incomes of millions of farmers, said Gustavo Cordero Jon Tay, president of the Peru-China Friendship Parliamentary League.
He underscored the importance of strengthening China-Latin America relations, particularly in areas of social development and poverty alleviation.
Highlighting the value of China's experience for Latin America and the Caribbean, he elaborated on how cooperation promotes effective development models rooted in equity, social justice, and modernization.
On the significance of Peru-China relations, former Peruvian minister of transport and communications, Enrique Cornejo, emphasized their foundations in cooperation and the gradual strengthening of social, cultural and economic ties.
Eduardo Yong Motta, former minister of health and president of the Peru-China Institute, highlighted China's critical role in supporting Peru's development, particularly in healthcare.
He applauded China's commitment to global well-being and the shared cultural heritage between the two nations.
The relations between China and Latin America and the Caribbean over the past decade were grounded in equality, mutual benefit, innovation, and openness, resulting in significant cooperation across multiple sectors, said CICG's chief editor Gao Anming at the seminar.
A youth cultural exchange forum between Chinese and Peruvian students concluded the seminar, where entrepreneurs, business leaders, and professionals shared experiences and aspirations, eyeing the potential for stronger ties in trade, investment and education.
The event also featured the unveiling of a special Spanish edition of China Today magazine titled "China-Latin America: Embracing Two Worlds." ■