Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-03-22 21:10:00
ROSEAU, March 21 (Xinhua) -- "China has been a true friend of Dominica, and I would say an all-weather friend," Dominican Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit has said.
Located in the northeastern Windward Islands in the Eastern Caribbean, the Commonwealth of Dominica is an island country with a population of less than 100,000.
When Dominica was in difficult times, "China is always one of the first countries, which would come to the aid," Skerrit told Xinhua in an exclusive interview in Dominica's capital Roseau.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations, which have seen rapid growth both at the bilateral and multilateral levels.
Skerrit recalled the historic decision made 20 years ago. Dominica has since been committed to the one-China principle.
In 2018, Dominica signed a memorandum of understanding with China to jointly build the Belt and Road.
According to Skerrit, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has opened up numerous opportunities not only for Dominica, but for many countries around the world to help with their economic independence and social development.
Agriculture is the mainstay of Dominica's economy, and the Dominican government is actively exploring ways for its modernization.
Skerrit said that under the BRI, Dominica has been actively working with China to set up agricultural technology cooperative projects in order to improve agricultural development, technology transfer and guarantee food security in the country.
At the beginning of this year, he also went to visit Chinese agriculture group at the Dominica-China Modern Agricultural Centre and participate in the handover of agricultural materials.
Dominica has limited medical resources, and the population has a long history of difficulty accessing to health care.
In his opinion, the construction of the Dominica-China Friendship Hospital, the introduction of new technologies, equipment and the direct support by China in respect to its first cardiology department show "a dramatic improvement in the health care in Dominica as a result of the BRI."
In recent years, institutions like the Confucius classroom in Dominica State College and the Dominica-China Friendship Association have been established one after another. Batches of Dominican students and individuals from various sectors travelled to China for further studies, visits and trainings.
Many young Dominican students are attending universities in China and attaining their degrees in China. "Most of them are back here working in various fields, such as medicine, agriculture, architecture, environmental studies, international relations studies and psychology," he said.
Skerrit commended China's successful experience in implementing a system that meets China's own conditions and realities and boosts China's modernization and development.
"We always say that every country has a right to determine its own political system. And I believe that the political system which exists in China has also contributed to China's prosperity and the improvement in the way of life of the Chinese people," he added.
Skerrit said that multilateralism is the way to world development, and that many troubles in today's world are triggered by lack of respect for multilateralism.
"And I think the way to go about achieving peace and prosperity is through dialogue and engagement of countries," he said.
A number of concepts and initiatives proposed by China, he said, could help practice multilateralism, assist in global peace and development and offer countries an opportunity to collaborate on important national and global issues.
As this year marks the tenth anniversary of the proclamation of the Forum of China and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), Skerrit deemed the China-CELAC Forum an opportunity for those countries to participate in international affairs and share ideas.
"Dominica is ideally placed. Dominica has excellent relations with all of the countries within CELAC, especially those from Latin America. We have excellent relations with China, and we will continue to serve as a bridge between China and CELAC and to advance the collaboration and the cooperation," said Skerrit.
He voiced hope for strengthening and deepening bilateral relations and working together in addressing global issues, so as to promote global peace and prosperity. ■