Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-05-11 00:48:00
An injured person is transferred from the scene of a train accident on a bridge in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on May 10, 2024. At least 30 people were seriously injured in the train accident in Buenos Aires on Friday, authorities said. (Xinhua/Martin Zabala)
BUENOS AIRES, May 10 (Xinhua) -- At least 30 people were seriously injured in a train accident in the Argentine capital of Buenos Aires on Friday, authorities said.
Alberto Crescenti, director of the capital's Emergency Medical Assistance Service, said that 90 people were treated and 30 of them were referred to health centers under the qualification "code red," which means in serious condition, local media reported.
Two of the people who were taken to the medical center had "traumatic head injuries and were taken by helicopter to Santojanni Hospital" in the capital, Crescenti said.
The city's head of government, Jorge Macri, described the disaster as a "serious accident," and said the evacuation operation worked very well.
An investigation was initiated to determine the cause of the accident, local railway authorities said. ■
A rescuer works at the scene of a train accident on a bridge in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on May 10, 2024. At least 30 people were seriously injured in the train accident in Buenos Aires on Friday, authorities said. (Xinhua/Martin Zabala)
An aerial photo taken on May 10, 2024 shows the scene of a train accident on a bridge in Buenos Aires, Argentina. At least 30 people were seriously injured in the train accident in Buenos Aires on Friday, authorities said. (Xinhua/Martin Zabala)
An aerial photo taken on May 10, 2024 shows the scene of a train accident on a bridge in Buenos Aires, Argentina. At least 30 people were seriously injured in the train accident in Buenos Aires on Friday, authorities said. (Xinhua/Martin Zabala)
An aerial photo taken on May 10, 2024 shows the scene of a train accident on a bridge in Buenos Aires, Argentina. At least 30 people were seriously injured in the train accident in Buenos Aires on Friday, authorities said. (Xinhua/Martin Zabala)