Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-05-06 09:50:30
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows rescue team members transferring people affected by flood in Scharlau, Sao Leopoldo, in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
SAO PAULO, May 5 (Xinhua) -- At least 75 people have died from severe storms that inundated large swaths of south Brazil's Rio Grande do Sul state since April 29, the Civil Defense agency said in its latest report released Sunday.
Another 155 people have been injured with 103 still missing, while 107,600 people have been evacuated to safety in 334 of the state's 496 cities.
The state, which borders Argentina and Uruguay, has been ravaged by record downpours that have devastated numerous towns and lead to unprecedented flooding in the state capital of Porto Alegre, where the Guaiba River burst its banks.
According to the Civil Defense agency, some 780,000 residents have been affected by flooding, with thousands of people forced to flee their homes by boats or climb onto rooftops in hope of being rescued by helicopters.
Rio Grande do Sul Governor Eduardo Leite described the situation in his state as a "war scene." ■
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows a view of a flooded street in Scharlau, Sao Leopoldo, in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows a car sitting in flood waters in Scharlau, Sao Leopoldo, in the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows cars sitting in flood waters in Scharlau, Sao Leopoldo, in the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows rescue team members transferring people affected by flood in Scharlau, Sao Leopoldo, in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows a view of a flooded street in Scharlau, Sao Leopoldo, in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows rescue team members transferring people affected by flood in Scharlau, Sao Leopoldo, in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows a view of a flooded petrol station in Scharlau, Sao Leopoldo, in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows a rescue team member (R) evacuating people in Scharlau, Sao Leopoldo, in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
Residents affected by flood receive supplies in Scharlau, Sao Leopoldo, in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, May 5, 2024. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows a view of flooded buildings in Novo Hamburgo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. At least 75 people have died from severe storms that inundated large swaths of south Brazil's Rio Grande do Sul state since April 29, the Civil Defense agency said in its latest report released Sunday. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
Residents affected by flood receive supplies in Novo Hamburgo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, May 5, 2024. At least 75 people have died from severe storms that inundated large swaths of south Brazil's Rio Grande do Sul state since April 29, the Civil Defense agency said in its latest report released Sunday. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
A rescued woman (rear) evacuates from the flooded area with her pet dogs in Novo Hamburgo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, May 5, 2024. At least 75 people have died from severe storms that inundated large swaths of south Brazil's Rio Grande do Sul state since April 29, the Civil Defense agency said in its latest report released Sunday. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows a view of a flooded street in Novo Hamburgo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. At least 75 people have died from severe storms that inundated large swaths of south Brazil's Rio Grande do Sul state since April 29, the Civil Defense agency said in its latest report released Sunday. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows rescue team members evacuating people affected by flood in Novo Hamburgo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. At least 75 people have died from severe storms that inundated large swaths of south Brazil's Rio Grande do Sul state since April 29, the Civil Defense agency said in its latest report released Sunday. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
The flood-affected residents embrace each other in the floodwaters in Novo Hamburgo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, May 5, 2024. At least 75 people have died from severe storms that inundated large swaths of south Brazil's Rio Grande do Sul state since April 29, the Civil Defense agency said in its latest report released Sunday. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
A dog is trapped on the rooftop of a building submerged by floodwaters in Novo Hamburgo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, May 5, 2024. At least 75 people have died from severe storms that inundated large swaths of south Brazil's Rio Grande do Sul state since April 29, the Civil Defense agency said in its latest report released Sunday. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows a view of a flooded street in Novo Hamburgo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. At least 75 people have died from severe storms that inundated large swaths of south Brazil's Rio Grande do Sul state since April 29, the Civil Defense agency said in its latest report released Sunday. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)
This photo taken on May 5, 2024 shows rescue team members evacuating people affected by flood in Novo Hamburgo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. At least 75 people have died from severe storms that inundated large swaths of south Brazil's Rio Grande do Sul state since April 29, the Civil Defense agency said in its latest report released Sunday. (Photo by Claudia Martini/Xinhua)