Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-06-13 01:20:30
by Wu Yue, Chen Dongshu
COLOMBO, June 12 (Xinhua) -- The establishment of the International Day for Dialogue among Civilizations underscored the need for continuous dialogue to bridge cultural divides, which highlighted the critical role of dialogue in maintaining world peace, promoting common development, and enhancing human well-being, said a Sri Lankan international affairs expert.
Hailing the establishment of the International Day for Dialogue among Civilizations, Yasiru Ranaraja, founding director of the Belt and Road Initiative Sri Lanka, told Xinhua recently that it plays a significant role in raising global awareness about the importance of civilizational diversity and promoting intercultural exchanges and cooperation.
"Furthermore, the designation of this day influences governments and international organizations to create and implement policies that support cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue, leading to a more comprehensive and inclusive global governance," he said.
Ranaraja said that China has made significant contributions to promoting mutual learning and dialogue among civilizations, particularly through initiatives like the Global Civilization Initiative. The country's dedication to fostering regional and global peace has earned the trust of neighboring nations.
In Sri Lanka, "one notable example is the establishment of Confucius Institutes at the University of Colombo in Sri Lanka, University of Kelaniya and Sabaragamuwa University in Sri Lanka. These institutes not only facilitate language learning but also encourage cross-cultural exchanges and mutual respect," Ranaraja said.
He stressed that China has not only improved Sri Lanka's infrastructure but also facilitated cultural exchanges and interactions between workers of the two countries.
"This development is reminiscent of the historical Silk Road, which was not only a trade route but also a conduit for cultural exchange and mutual learning. By linking Sri Lanka to the BRI (Belt and Road Initiative), China is promoting regional connectivity and cooperation while fostering mutual understanding and dialogue among civilizations," Ranaraja said. ■