Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-12 06:12:30
This photo taken on Feb. 11, 2025 shows soot on a facade of the Renoir Tower II, where a fire broke out, in Buenos Aires' upscale Puerto Madero neighborhood, Argentina.
Firefighters and emergency crews evacuated at least 100 people Tuesday after a fire broke out in a luxury high-rise, the third-tallest building in Argentina. (Photo by Martin Zabala/Xinhua)
BUENOS AIRES, Feb. 11 (Xinhua) -- Firefighters and emergency crews evacuated at least 100 people Tuesday after a fire broke out in a luxury high-rise, the third-tallest building in Argentina.
The fire erupted in Renoir Tower II, located in Buenos Aires' upscale Puerto Madero neighborhood, with 32 people needing medical attention for smoke inhalation. They were treated with oxygen on-site.
Three people were taken to Argerich Hospital for further treatment, said Alberto Crescenti, head of the city's Emergency Medical Assistance Service (SAME).
More than 30 emergency units responded to the scene, along with firefighters and local police.
Diego Coria, chief of the Buenos Aires City Police Fire Squad, told reporters that the fire started on the 11th floor in a mechanical room housing the building's air conditioning units.
"This space has ceiling vents, which allowed the fire to spread to other floors," Coria explained, adding that the cause is under investigation.
Local media reported that Renoir Tower II, completed in 2012, stands 172 meters (564 feet) tall with 51 floors.
According to La Nacion, a daily newspaper based in Buenos Aires, a 1,884-square-foot (175-square-meter) apartment in the tower is valued at more than 1 million U.S. dollars. The building offers various high-end amenities. ■
This photo taken on Feb. 11, 2025 shows the Renoir Tower II (2nd L) where a fire broke out, in Buenos Aires' upscale Puerto Madero neighborhood, Argentina.
Firefighters and emergency crews evacuated at least 100 people Tuesday after a fire broke out in a luxury high-rise, the third-tallest building in Argentina. (Photo by Martin Zabala/Xinhua)