Title: Beijing, Brasilia elevate bilateral ties
Date: Nov 22, 2024

President Xi Jinping and Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva shake hands during their meeting in Brasilia, the capital of Brazil, on Wednesday. Xi started a state visit to the country after attending the 19th G20 Summit in Rio de Janeiro. (LI XUEREN/XINHUA)
China and Brazil announced on Wednesday that they would elevate their bilateral ties to a community with a shared future for a more just world and a more sustainable planet. Both sides also decided to synergize the Belt and Road Initiative with the Latin American nation's development strategies.
President Xi Jinping and Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva signed a joint declaration to advance bilateral ties after holding talks at Lula's official residence in the Brazilian capital, Brasilia.
"The China-Brazil relationship is at its best period in history," Xi said, adding that "the most wonderful chapter" of China-Brazil ties is yet to come.
The Chinese president, on his second visit to the nation after five years, was given a grand welcome. Xi's official state car was escorted by a cavalry of 120 dragoons, and his arrival also featured a marching honor guard.
The elevation of bilateral ties marks another historic moment in China-Brazil relations, Xi said.
"It meets the expectations of both peoples, gives impetus and support to the modernization of the two countries, and demonstrates the resolve to jointly defend international fairness and justice and promote common development of the world."
He underlined Beijing's readiness to work with Brasilia to continually enrich China-Brazil relations in the new era, to be "golden partners" who help each other succeed, and to keep working toward the goal of building a community with a shared future for mankind and creating a more just world and a more sustainable planet.
Xi called on both nations to continue strengthening strategic mutual trust and supporting each other on core issues such as sovereignty, security and territorial integrity.
As trusted strategic partners, the two sides should set an example of solidarity, cooperation and shared development among Global South nations, he said.
Synergizing the BRI with the development strategies of Brazil should be used as a historic opportunity to deepen cooperation in key areas such as trade, infrastructure, finance, technology and environmental protection, and to expand collaboration in space exploration, agricultural technology and clean energy, Xi added.
He also called for both sides to remain committed to multilateralism and jointly push for a fairer global governance system. He highlighted the need to ensure the continued success of the Forum of China and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States.
At a joint news conference with the Brazilian president, Xi mentioned the six-point proposals between China and Brazil to push for the political settlement of the Ukraine crisis, calling for greater voices for peace.
On the Middle East conflict, Xi told reporters that the two sides are deeply concerned about the continued expansion of the conflict in Gaza, and call for realizing a cease-fire and an end of hostilities as soon as possible.
China and Brazil share a tradition and sense of responsibility in upholding justice and morality, he added.
Lula said during the meeting with Xi that Brazil is vigorously promoting development strategies such as the New Growth Acceleration Program, new industrial policy and the Routes for South American Integration initiative, which are highly compatible with the China-proposed BRI.
The enhanced synergy of development strategies between Brazil and China will greatly contribute to Brazil's reindustrialization, promote the integration of South America, and set an example of solidarity, cooperation and mutual benefit among developing countries, he said.
Lula later told reporters that the two nations will prioritize cooperation in sustainable development, infrastructure, finance, energy transition and space exploration as part of broader steps to elevate relations to new heights.
He noted that China is Brazil's most important partner for trade and investment, and that Chinese companies have strongly facilitated his country's socioeconomic development.
Brazil is China's ninth-largest trading partner. China is Brazil's largest trading partner, with bilateral trade in 2023 reaching $181.53 billion, up 6.1 percent year-on-year, according to China's Foreign Ministry.
Lula noted the two nations' highly aligned positions on major international development and security issues. "In a world marred by armed conflicts and geopolitical tensions, Brazil and China have consistently prioritized peaceful diplomacy and dialogue," he said.
Xi left Brasilia for China on Thursday after the state visit to Brazil. Before the visit, he attended the 19th G20 Summit in Rio de Janeiro.
Ana Celia Castro, a senior fellow at the Brazilian Center of International Relations, said the BRI has the same important value for Brazil, a country located between two big oceans.
"We do have some similar connection with the idea of the Belt and Road. You have the (ancient) Silk Road. And we had our gold route in the colonial time," Castro said, adding that Brazil's geopolitical situation is also favorable to commercial relations.
She said it is significant for Brazil and China to align their development strategies for more concrete results. The connection will not only facilitate bilateral trade relations, but also cultural relationships, she added.
"We need an umbrella to embrace all activities together, covering various aspects including education, culture and economy," Castro said, adding that she believes that the BRI could be this umbrella.
Castro said she is confident that bilateral agreements between the two countries' universities, enterprises and ministries will be a perfect starting point to help consolidate the two countries' strategic cooperation.
As China aims to achieve its GDP growth target for 2024 of around 5 percent, Castro said this will offer more opportunities for enterprises in Brazil and in Global South nations as a whole.
Chen Yuanting, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences' Institute of Latin American Studies, said the significance of China-Brazil relations goes beyond the bilateral level, and has an important influence on world peace and development.
Steady and sound relations with Brazil serve as a "stabilizer" for China's ties with Latin America as a whole, Chen said. The two major developing countries pay much attention to issues concerning the well-being of Global South countries, such as poverty, inequality and climate change, and share the hope for strengthening bilateral cooperation to address these issues, she added.
The development strategies of China and Brazil highly complement each other, Chen said, adding that practical bilateral cooperation in a number of fields, including new energy and e-commerce, is an inspiring example that other developing countries can draw on to improve cooperation and promote growth.
