Title: Beijing slams erroneous remarks in G7 statement
Date: Nov 28, 2024

China has slammed the G7 countries over a recent statement issued by the bloc's foreign ministers, urging them to cut their "obsession with geopolitical games".
In the statement issued as they met in Italy earlier this week, the G7 foreign ministers said they "seek constructive and stable relations with China", while criticizing China over a series of issues, including the Ukraine crisis.
In response, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Mao Ning said on Wednesday that China had expressed its solemn stance multiple times this year regarding erroneous China-related remarks made by the G7 bloc.
"Since it has said it seeks constructive and stable relations with China and expressed its readiness to cooperate with China to address global challenges, the G7 should deliver on these words by practicing mutual respect, equality, and mutual benefit, instead of attacking and smearing China," Mao said.
Reiterating that China holds an objective and fair position on the Ukraine crisis, and works actively to promote peace talks, Mao said China has never provided weapons to the parties involved in the conflict.
"China strictly controls the export of dual-use items, even civilian drones, and opposes the use of civilian drones for military purposes," the spokeswoman said, adding that the country's normal trade with Russia should not be interfered with by any third party.
Speaking of G7 foreign ministers' accusation of China's "overcapacity" in the statement, Mao said such claims have been proven false by a large number of detailed facts and data.
The spokeswoman asked the G7 countries to "uphold an open attitude and stick to fair competition".
Mao also dismissed the statement's remarks about the East and South China seas, Taiwan, Xinjiang, Xizang and Hong Kong, saying China is firmly opposed to the bloc undermining its sovereignty and interfering in its internal affairs.
"We urge the G7 countries to follow the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and basic norms guiding international relations, and to mind their own business," Mao said.
The spokeswoman went on to say that China always upholds fairness, justice, openness, and inclusiveness, and is committed to benefiting the world through its own development.
"We hope the G7 countries will stop being obsessed with geopolitical games, abandon zero-sum thinking, and make some concrete contributions to the unity and cooperation of the international community," she said.
