Title: China rips countries' intrusion in HK trial
Date: Nov 21, 2024

The Foreign Ministry on Wednesday strongly rejected other countries' interference in China's internal affairs regarding the national security case of Jimmy Lai Chee-ying, and insisted that no one should engage in illegal activities under the guise of "freedom".
After nearly four months' adjournment, Lai's trial resumed on Wednesday, during which he testified for the first time in the landmark case. The trial is expected to last for about a month.
The former media tycoon is facing two charges of conspiracy to collude with foreign forces to endanger national security, marking the first time that the city is prosecuting someone on such a charge. He is also charged with conspiracy to print and distribute seditious publications.
The trial resumed one day after the sentencing of 45 individuals involved in a subversive plot to paralyze the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government. It was the largest national security trial the city has held to date.
During a news conference in Beijing, Foreign Ministry spokesman Lin Jian said that observing and strictly enforcing the law is a basic principle in Hong Kong, and no one can engage in illegal activities under the guise of freedom and try to escape justice.
Lin pointed out that Lai is a major organizer of — and participant in — a series of events that undermined the stability of Hong Kong, acting as a proxy and pawn for anti-China forces.
The spokesman emphasized that based on Hong Kong's Basic Law and the National Security Law, the HKSAR government safeguards national security in a lawful and justified manner, and the judiciary of Hong Kong exercises judicial power independently according to the law, with fair and transparent procedures.
The central government firmly backs the HKSAR in safeguarding national security and lawfully punishing people who engage in activities that undermine it. It strongly opposes certain countries' interference in China's internal affairs through related judicial cases, as well as their attempts to smear and undermine the rule of law in Hong Kong.
Appearing in court on Wednesday, Lai admitted to giving ￡20,000 ($25,350) to Hong Kong Watch, an anti-China organization that has repeatedly urged foreign countries to impose sanctions against China and the HKSAR.
Asked about his connection with Taiwan, the 76-year-old media mogul said that he went to Taiwan when he planned to publish Apple Daily there, and met Tsai Ing-wen before she became the island's leader. Lai said that he met several times with Tsai to discuss policies concerning Taiwan and the United States.
