Title: China set to further ties with Morocco
Date: Nov 23, 2024

President Xi Jinping meets Moroccan Crown Prince Moulay El Hassan in Casablanca, where he made a technical stopover on his way back to China after the 19th G20 Summit and a state visit to Brazil. (Photo/Xinhua)
President Xi Jinping has underscored China's commitment to supporting Morocco in maintaining its national security and stability, and expressed the country's willingness to work with the North African nation to continue to firmly support each other on issues concerning their own core interests.
Xi made the remarks on Thursday evening during a meeting with Moroccan Crown Prince Moulay El Hassan in Casablanca, where he made a technical stopover on his way back to China after the 19th G20 Summit and a state visit to Brazil.
Upon instructions from King Mohammed VI, the crown prince and Moroccan Prime Minister Aziz Akhannouch received Xi at Mohammed V International Airport, where a welcoming ceremony was held.
Xi had a cordial conversation with Hassan, asking him to convey his sincere greetings and best wishes to the Moroccan king.
Xi noted that China-Morocco relations have been developing well, with fruitful pragmatic cooperation and increasingly active exchanges in various fields.
He recalled King Mohammed VI's state visit to China in 2016, when they held fruitful talks and elevated China-Morocco relations to a new level.
China is ready to work with Morocco to implement the outcomes of the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation and the 10th Ministerial Meeting of the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum, and deliver more achievements in pragmatic cooperation under the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative, Xi said.
He called on both countries to expand cultural exchanges to solidify the foundation of friendship between the two peoples, and promote greater development of the China-Morocco strategic partnership.
Hassan conveyed King Mohammed VI's sincere greetings and warm welcome to Xi, and said that Morocco-China relations have maintained good development momentum.
He expressed gratitude for China's valuable support for his country during the COVID-19 pandemic, which, he said, the Moroccan people will never forget.
The Moroccan royal family and government are committed to further developing Morocco-China relations, maintaining high-level exchanges between the two countries, and strengthening cooperation in various fields, the crown prince said.
Noting that the Chinese language and culture are well received by the Moroccan people, he expressed hope that the two countries would strengthen cultural exchanges.
Saying Morocco and China share similar positions on many issues, the crown prince expressed his country's willingness to work with China to firmly support each other in maintaining national sovereignty, security and stability.
China has stepped up investments in Morocco's infrastructure, railway and electric vehicle sectors in recent years.
On Nov 13, Chinese EV battery manufacturer Gotion High-Tech signed an agreement with Morocco's state-owned investment fund CDG in Hefei, Anhui province, to advance the development of an electric battery gigafactory in Kenitra, Morocco.
The Kenitra gigafactory project will receive an initial investment of 13 billion dirhams ($1.3 billion), with the first phase focused on producing 20 gigawatt-hours of lithium-ion batteries and cathode materials, according to media reports. The project is expected to create approximately 2,300 jobs, contributing significantly to local employment and economic growth.
Xi is expected to return to Beijing on Saturday after his Latin American tour starting on Nov 13, which also took him to Peru for the 31st APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting in Lima and a state visit to the country.
