Title: China ready to strengthen cooperation with Vietnam
Date: Dec 11, 2024

Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Tuesday expressed China's readiness to consolidate strategic mutual trust and strengthen solidarity and cooperation with Vietnam to build a China-Vietnam community with a shared future.
Wang made the remarks when co-chairing the 16th meeting of the China-Vietnam Steering Committee for Bilateral Cooperation with Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Vietnam Bui Thanh Son in Beijing.
Both countries should expand two-way trade and investment and build stable and smooth cross-border industrial and supply chains, Wang said.
Efforts should be made to improve infrastructure connectivity, facilitate trade and investment, and step up cooperation in emerging fields such as artificial intelligence and e-commerce, he added.
As 2025 is designated as the China-Vietnam Cultural Exchange Year, marking the 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations, Wang called on the two countries to properly organize relevant activities.
The two neighbors should strengthen coordination and cooperation under mechanisms such as the United Nations and the Lancang-Mekong Cooperation to safeguard the common interests of developing countries, Wang said.
He also urged the two sides to properly manage and handle differences, keep making good use of the border negotiation mechanism, and promote new progress in maritime cooperation.
Vietnam has always regarded China as the top priority and strategic choice of its foreign policy, Son said, while pledging the country's firm commitment to the one-China policy.
Vietnam is willing to work with China to continue to enhance political mutual trust, deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, strengthen communication and coordination on multilateral affairs, and properly manage differences, he added.
Prior to the meeting, the two sides held the first gathering of the "3+3" strategic dialogue mechanism, presided over by the heads of foreign affairs, defense, and public security departments.
The two sides reached broad consensus on bilateral cooperation and international and regional issues of mutual concern, agreeing that the mechanism provides a platform for enhancing strategic communication and fully reflects the high level and strategic nature of bilateral ties.
