Title: Chinese FM responds to Lithuania's wanton and provocative action
Date: Dec 3, 2024

China strongly condemns and firmly rejects the wanton and provocative action that Lithuania's Foreign Ministry, without any reason, declared relevant diplomatic personnel of the Office of the Chargé d'Affaires of China in Lithuania "persona non grata" and demanded that they leave the country within the time required, according to Chinese Foreign Ministry on Monday.
As many are aware, on issues concerning China's Taiwan region, Lithuania has been acting in serious violation of the one-China principle and breached the political commitment Lithuania made in the communiqué on the establishment of China-Lithuania diplomatic relations, according to the spokesperson of the ministry.
This has caused severe difficulty for bilateral ties. Three years on since the downgrade of bilateral ties with China, Lithuania has again taken detrimental action that further exacerbates the relations.
China calls on Lithuania to immediately stop undermining China's sovereignty and territorial integrity, and stop creating difficulty for bilateral relations. China reserves the right to take countermeasures against Lithuania.
We hope the upcoming new government of Lithuania will follow the prevailing international consensus, abide by the one-China principle, and foster conditions for the normalization of China-Lithuania relations, according to the spokesperson.
Relations between China and Lithuania soured after the Baltic state allowed the island of Taiwan to open its so-called representative office in Lithuania in 2021, which China called a blatant violation of the one-China principle and international rules. China later downgraded its diplomatic relations with Lithuania to the level of chargé d'affaires.
Lithuania's incoming prime minister said he's open to restoring diplomatic relations with China three years after a trade dispute led to Beijing downgrading its ties with the Baltic nation, according to a Bloomberg report.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lin Jian said on Monday at a regular press briefing that China also noted that a new Lithuanian government is about to be formed and several political leaders have expressed their desire to improve relations with China.
The Chinese side hopes that the new Lithuanian government will take concrete actions to abide by the political commitments made in the communique on the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries, adhere to the one-China principle, and promote the return of bilateral relations to the right track, said Lin.
