Title: China to impose visa restrictions on U.S. officials as countermeasures over HK-related issues
Date: Dec 11, 2024

China has decided to impose visa restrictions on U.S. personnel who have acted egregiously on Hong Kong-related issues, in accordance with the Law on Foreign Relations of the People's Republic of China and the Anti-Foreign Sanctions Law of the People's Republic of China, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Mao Ning said on Tuesday when she was asked about specific countermeasures in light of the U.S. announcement to impose new visa restrictions on Hong Kong officials for implementing the National Security Law (NSL) for Hong Kong.
Washington said last month it would impose fresh sanctions on Hong Kong officials responsible for implementing the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR)'s national security law following the jailing of 45 people for subversion, according to RTHK, one of Hong Kong region's major broadcasters. In November, 45 people convicted of "conspiracy to subvert state power" were sentenced to terms of imprisonment ranging from 50 months to 10 years in Hong Kong.
Mao said that China has made clear our serious position on relevant moves of the U.S. side. The U.S. used Hong Kong-related issues to slap visa restrictions on Chinese officials, which grossly interferes in China's internal affairs and seriously violates the principles of international law and the basic norms of international relations, Mao added.
In accordance with the Law on Foreign Relations of the People's Republic of China and the Anti-Foreign Sanctions Law of the People's Republic of China, China decided to impose visa restrictions on U.S. personnel who have acted egregiously on Hong Kong-related issues, Mao said.
Mao said that it must be stressed that Hong Kong is China's Hong Kong and Hong Kong affairs are purely China's internal affairs. We urge the U.S. to earnestly respect China's sovereignty, respect Hong Kong's rule of law and stop meddling in Hong Kong affairs in whatever form, Mao said.
China remains unwavering in its determination to safeguard the nation's sovereignty, security and development interests, to implement One Country, Two Systems, and to oppose any external interference in Hong Kong's affairs, Mao said.
In a November press conference, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lin Jian said in response to U.S.' taking steps to impose new visa restrictions on multiple Hong Kong officials that, China's central government firmly supports the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in safeguarding national security and punishing various activities that endanger national security in accordance with law. Lin warned that if the U.S. insists on imposing visa restrictions on Hong Kong officials, China will take firm countermeasures.
Washington played a detrimental role in exacerbating the riots in Hong Kong in 2019, actively fueling the unrest, and in a certain sense, the NSL for Hong Kong is specifically aimed at addressing the instigating actions by the external forces behind these disturbances, Lü Xiang, a research fellow at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told the Global Times on Tuesday.
Since the implementation of the NSL in 2020, Hong Kong has emerged from the shadow of turmoil and is now at a crucial stage of recovery, he said. Therefore, any attempt by the U.S. to undermine the security, stability, and development of Hong Kong at this time will be met with countermeasures from the Chinese side, Lü said.
The implementation of the NSL is currently at a critical juncture, with recent developments including the Jimmy Lai case and the verdict on the "35-plus" defendants, he added. The countermeasures from China convey the message that if the U.S. obstructs its efforts to pursue peace and development in HKSAR, it will certainly respond with reciprocal actions, Lü noted.
