Title: China urges the U.S. not to take China's goodwill for granted
Date: Nov 27, 2024

China on Tuesday urged the U.S. not to take China's goodwill for granted and work to ensure that the hard-won positive dynamics will stay in the China-U.S. counternarcotics cooperation, noting that China remains ready to continue counternarcotics cooperation with the U.S. on the basis of equality, mutual benefit and mutual respect.
The remarks by a spokesperson of the Chinese Foreign Ministry were made in response to that U.S. President-elect Donald Trump said on social media that he "had many talks with China about the massive amounts of drugs, in particular Fentanyl, being sent into the United States—But to no avail... and drugs are pouring into our country." The U.S. will be charging China an additional 10 percent tariff on all Chinese imports.
The spokesperson noted that China is one of the world's toughest countries on counternarcotics both in terms of policy and its implementation. Fentanyl is an issue for the U.S.. In the spirit of humanity, China has given support to the U.S.'s response to this issue. As early as in 2019, China officially scheduled all fentanyl-related substances and is the first country in the world ever to do so.
China has carried out extensive and in-depth counternarcotics cooperation with the U.S., which has been highly productive. This is a clear fact for all to see, the spokesperson stressed.
President-elect Donald Trump threatened on Monday to impose sweeping new tariffs on Mexico, Canada and China as soon as he takes office as part of his effort to crack down on illegal immigration and drugs. He said he would impose a 25 percent tax on all products entering the country from Canada and Mexico, and an additional 10 percent tariff on goods from China, as one of his first executive orders, the Associated Press reported.
"Until such time as they stop, we will be charging China an additional 10% Tariff, above any additional Tariffs, on all of their many products coming into the United States of America," he wrote on his Truth Social site.
In response to the remarks, a Chinese embassy spokesperson in Washington told the Global Times in an emailed reply that "About the issue of U.S. tariffs on China, China believes that China-U.S. economic and trade cooperation is mutually beneficial in nature. No one will win a trade war or a tariff war."
The counternarcotics authorities of China and the U.S. have resumed regular communication since the San Francisco Summit. The Chinese side has notified the U.S. side of the progress made in U.S.-related law enforcement operations against narcotics. China has responded to U.S. request for verifying clues on certain cases and taken action, the spokesperson told the Global Times.
All these prove that the idea of China knowingly allowing fentanyl precursors to flow into the U.S. runs completely counter to facts and reality, the spokesperson noted.
