Title: G7 should stop being indulged in geopolitical games: Chinese FM
Date: Nov 28, 2024

China has made clear solemn position on the G7's erroneous remarks related to China, and given that the G7 members say they seek constructive and stable relations with China and stand ready to cooperate with China to address global challenges, they should champion the spirit of mutual trust, equality and mutual benefit, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Mao Ning said on Wednesday.
Mao made the remarks in response to the G7 foreign ministers' meeting statement, which proposed seeking constructive and stable relations with China, cooperating with China to address global challenges, while demanding that China cease supporting Russia's defense industry, hyping up the so-called Chinese overcapacity issue, and making wrongful comments on issues related to the East China Sea, South China Sea, and China's Taiwan, Xinjiang, Xizang, and Hong Kong.
Mao said China has been objective and just on the Ukraine crisis and actively promoted talks for peace, and China has never provided weapons to parties to the conflict and strictly controls the export of dual-use articles, even drones for civilian use, and opposes using civilian drones for military purposes. Meanwhile, normal economic ties and trade between China and Russia should not be disrupted or coerced by any third party.
Mao also said the so-called allegation of China's overcapacity has been proved a false one by a large number of informative facts and statistics. "We hope relevant countries will keep an open mind and pursue fair competition," Mao said.
The spokesperson noted that China's position on issues related to the East China Sea, the South China Sea, Taiwan, Xinjiang, Xizang and Hong Kong is consistent and clear-cut. "We firmly oppose the G7 undermining China's sovereignty and interfering in China's internal affairs. We urge G7 countries to abide by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter and the basic norms governing international relations and look after their own affairs."
"As we speak, changes unseen in a century are unfolding at a faster pace in our world and international peace and development are facing unprecedented challenges. As a responsible major country, China always upholds fairness and justice, pursues openness and inclusiveness and brings benefits to the world through its development," Mao noted.
We hope the G7 countries will stop being indulged in geopolitical games, discard the narrow zero-sum mindset and make concrete contributions to international solidarity and cooperation, Mao said.
