Title: Hong Kong SAR government cancels passport of seven absconders who are anti-China disruptors
Date: Dec 24, 2024

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government issued a notice on Tuesday, listing seven anti-China disruptors as absconders, including Ted Hui Chi-fung and Dennis Kwok Wing-hang. Measures have been implemented against them, including canceling their SAR passports, according to multiple media reports.
The seven were listed in a government notice on Tuesday as absconders for offenses endangering national security, Bloomberg reported. Four measures have been implemented against them, including canceling their SAR passports, prohibition on providing funds or handling funds, prohibition on certain activities related to irremovable assets, and prohibition related to joint ventures or partnerships involving the aforementioned fugitives, according to CCTV news.
Hong Kong Secretary for Security Chris Tang Ping-keung pointed out at a press conference on Tuesday that the aforementioned anti-China disruptors who absconded are continuing to engage in activities that endanger national security. Among them, Hui Chi-fung is still illegally raising funds online to conduct activities that endanger national security. The Hong Kong Police Force has issued a wanted notice for him and will confiscate his illegal proceeds. Tang emphasized that the implementation of a series of measures against those anti-China disruptor aims to combat and deter actions that jeopardize national security, delivering a heavy blow to those who have fled overseas.
The Deputy Commissioner of Police (National Security) of Hong Kong, Kan Kai-yan, stated on Tuesday that the National Security Department of the Police Force has issued a wanted notice for six individuals who have fled overseas: Joe Tay, Tony Chung Hon Lam, Chung Kim-wa, Victor Leung Mau Ho, Chloe Cheung, and Carmen Lau Ka-man, who are anti-China disruptors.
Central government's office for safeguarding national security in Hong Kong SAR issued a statement on Tuesday, firmly supporting the Hong Kong SAR government in lawfully carrying out law enforcement against seven wanted anti-China disrupters. The statement also mentioned the issuance of wanted notices for six other absconders, including Joe Tay, Tony Chung Hon Lam, Chung Kim-wa, Victor Leung Mau Ho, Chloe Cheung, and Carmen Lau Ka-man, who have fled abroad. This is aimed at effectively upholding the dignity of the law and safeguarding national security, the statement said.
The statement pointed out that individuals like Hui Chi-fung and Carmen Lau Ka-man have long been engaging in anti-China disrupting activities. They fled overseas to seek foreign support while continuing to establish platforms for inciting chaos in Hong Kong SAR, spreading political rumors that smear Hong Kong's rule of law, begging external forces to sanction Hong Kong or interfere in Hong Kong affairs. Their actions openly challenge the authority of the Hong Kong National Security Law, disrupt social order in Hong Kong, and attempt to incite chaos once again. Such egregious behavior severely violates the Hong Kong National Security Law, undermines the bottom line of the "One country, Two systems", seriously harms Hong Kong's fundamental interests, and severely endangers national sovereignty, security, and development interests, triggering great outrage in Hong Kong society and a strong demand for their legal accountability.
The Hong Kong police's lawful enforcement actions, including the identification of absconders and public wanted notices, align with Hong Kong's fundamental interests and reflect the common voice of society, said the statement.
