Title: Logo released to mark Sino-Thai 50th anniversary
Date: Nov 20, 2024

China and Thailand jointly release on Tuesday a logo that marks 2025 as "the Golden Jubilee for Thai-China Friendship". (YANG WANLI/CHINA DAILY)
China and Thailand jointly released on Tuesday a logo that marks 2025 as "the Golden Jubilee for Thai-China Friendship". The two countries will be celebrating the 50th anniversary of their diplomatic relations next year.
Jointly announced by the foreign ministries of the two countries, the 50th anniversary's official logo is an image of intertwined "Chinese dragon" and "Naga", mythical creatures that represent China and Thailand, respectively, by using colors from both countries' national flags.
The Naga and the dragon, which are facing each other and looking at a golden orb, imply both Thailand and China are aiming for the same goal — Sino-Thai community with a shared future for enhanced stability, prosperity and sustainability.
In his opening remarks, Thai Minister of Foreign Affairs Maris Sangiampongsa emphasized the special relations between Thailand and China, which have continuously developed over the past half a century, since the two parties signed the Joint Communique on the Establishment of the Diplomatic Relations on July 1, 1975.
"The 50th anniversary will be a good opportunity for both sides to further enhance their cooperation, marking 2025 as 'the Golden Jubilee for Thailand-China Friendship' and moving toward the building of 'a Thai-China community with a shared future for enhanced stability, prosperity and sustainability'," he said.
He said the people from the two countries share brotherly ties and such a long friendship between them is mutually beneficial, as it was established based on mutual respect.
With a shared aim of benefiting people from both sides, Maris said the close relations between China and Thailand will lay a solid foundation for deeper cooperation in the future.
Reliable friend
Han Zhiqiang, Chinese ambassador to Thailand, said China will always be a reliable friend of Thailand and continue to support the kingdom in achieving greater success in its own development path.
"We will join hands to build a Sino-Thai community with a shared future, remaining true to our original aspirations and moving forward hand in hand," he noted.
On Tuesday, representatives from the Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Chinese embassy, the Tourism Authority of Thailand, and the Thai-Chinese Friendship Association participated in the panel discussions where they shared plans for the 50th anniversary celebrations next year, as well as the role of each organization in promoting Sino-Thai cooperation.
The Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced a special collaboration with Chinese company Pop Mart, and the launch of a limited-edition Dimoo toy, which will be promoted as a "Special Friend of Thailand-China Golden Jubilee", and is expected to be launched next year as part of the anniversary celebrations.
Created by young Chinese artist Ayan Deng, Dimoo World aims to foster the concept of helping each other for joint development, said Chen Xiaoyun, vice-president of Pop Mart.
To celebrate the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries, Pop Mart will launch a special Dimoo figure dressed in Thai costume, Chen added.
