Title: Nation ready to expand cooperation with Samoa
Date: Nov 27, 2024

President Xi Jinping meets with Samoan Prime Minister Fiame Naomi Mata'afa in Beijing on Tuesday. (FENG YONGBIN/CHINA DAILY)
President Xi Jinping reiterated on Tuesday that China's policy toward Pacific island countries is open and inclusive, saying that it is not aimed at any third party and does not involve geopolitical competition or spheres of influence.
China's assistance to Pacific island countries comes with no political strings attached, it is not imposed on others, and it does not involve empty promises, he emphasized.
Xi made the remarks during a meeting in Beijing with Prime Minister of Samoa Fiame Naomi Mata'afa, who is on a nine-day official visit to China starting on Nov 20.
He said that in dealing with relations with Pacific island countries, China adheres to the principle of "four fully respects", which was put forward by Xi in July last year during a meeting in Beijing with Manasseh Sogavare, then prime minister of the Solomon Islands.
China fully respects the sovereignty and independence of Pacific island countries, fully respects their will, fully respects their ethnic and cultural traditions, and fully respects their efforts to seek strength through unity, according to the principle.
Xi expressed China's readiness to give priority in its cooperation with Pacific island countries to enhance their capacity to address climate change, promote the full and effective implementation of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, uphold the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, and safeguard fairness, justice and the common interests of the Global South.
He hailed the sound development of bilateral ties, saying that China firmly supports Samoa in safeguarding its sovereignty and independence and in exploring development paths that suit its national conditions.
China has always advocated that all countries, regardless of their size, have the equal right to independently pursue modernization, he said.
China will continue to provide support for Samoa's socioeconomic development within the framework of South-South cooperation, and further explore potential in areas such as trade, agriculture and fisheries to expand mutually beneficial cooperation and achieve common development, he added.
Samoa was one of the first Pacific island countries to establish diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China and one of the first countries to sign a memorandum of understanding with China on Belt and Road cooperation.
Faleolo International Airport in Apia, the capital of Samoa, supported by Chinese enterprises, is one of the most modern international airports in the South Pacific. The Chinese-aided government building in the heart of Apia is featured on Samoa's 50-tala banknotes, exemplifying China's commitment to supporting the nation's socioeconomic development.
Mata'afa thanked China for its long-standing, valuable assistance to Samoa, and expressed her appreciation for China's adherence to the principle of noninterference in other countries' internal affairs.
She said that China's assistance to Pacific island countries does not have any political conditions attached, and China always delivers on its promises.
Samoa firmly adheres to the one-China principle and supports the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative, all proposed by Xi, she said.
There has been a flurry of visits to China by the leaders of Pacific island countries this year, including those from Nauru, the Federated States of Micronesia, Vanuatu, the Solomon Islands and Fiji.
Also on Tuesday, Premier Li Qiang hosted a grand welcoming ceremony for Mata'afa in Beijing, and they held official talks.
They jointly witnessed the signing of several bilateral cooperation documents on the implementation of the GDI, economic development, education and other areas.
The two countries also issued a joint statement on Tuesday, reaffirming their commitment to strengthening cooperation and multilateral coordination. They agreed to launch a feasibility study on a free trade agreement at an early date.
