Title: Official promotes hydrogen energy efforts
Date: Nov 15, 2024

China has emerged as the global leader in both hydrogen production and consumption, having successfully attained expertise in essential technologies across its industrial chain and production processes, a senior climate diplomat said.
Hydrogen energy is one of the key enablers for global energy transition, serving as a crucial element in constructing a clean, low-carbon, secure and efficient energy system, stressed Zhao Yingmin, head of the Chinese delegation at the ongoing COP29 United Nations climate change conference.
Formally known as the 29th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the event in Baku, Azerbaijan, began on Monday and is scheduled to conclude on Nov 22.
Addressing an event themed on hydrogen, Zhao, who is also vice-minister of the Ministry of Ecology and Environment, noted efforts from the Chinese government are being made to promote hydrogen development as the country forges ahead with its climate targets of peaking carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and going carbon neutral before 2060.
In 2022, the Chinese government rolled out a plan for the development of hydrogen energy for the 2021-2035 period, positioning the gas as a crucial component of the national energy system and also setting targets for various stages of industrial development, he noted.
According to the plan, China aims to increase its hydrogen production from renewable energy to between 100,000 and 200,000 metric tons per year, and make it an important part of newly added hydrogen energy consumption by 2025.
Jointly released by the National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration, the plan said the production of such green hydrogen is expected to facilitate the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by 1 million to 2 million tons per year.
Zhao said Chinese lawmakers passed the country's first energy law on Nov 8. The law, which takes effect on Jan 1, officially places hydrogen energy on an equal footing with traditional energy sources.
He also noted proactive efforts being made in China to tap the potential of using hydrogen to power vehicles and replace traditional fossil energy in the industrial sector.
The vice-minister also noted that the country's first million-ton steel-making experimental facility fueled by hydrogen has been operating steadily for one year.
Hydrogen production in China reached 35.5 million tons last year, representing 40 percent of the global total, he said, adding the annual demand for the energy in the country has been about 33 million tons.
"The hydrogen energy industry in China is now showing a positive trend of development," he said.
Ma Yongsheng, chairman of Sinopec, said despite significant progress in hydrogen energy development worldwide, the sector is still in the early stages of development.
"While the production cost of green hydrogen remains relatively high, there is still ample opportunity for enhancing the production of crucial materials and technologies," he said.
The standards and regulations for hydrogen development are not yet perfect, highlighting the need to deepen international scientific and technological cooperation, Ma added.
