Title: Opportunities anticipated for further Belt and Road benefits
Date: Nov 21, 2024

China willing to align BRI with Bolivia's strategic plan
Chinese President Xi Jinping meets with Bolivian President Luis Arce on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Nov 19, 2024. [Photo/Xinhua]
President Xi Jinping told Bolivian President Luis Arce on Tuesday that China is willing to align Belt and Road cooperation with the South American country's 2025 development plan and elevate bilateral ties to new heights, as next year will mark the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations.
Xi made the remarks when meeting with Arce in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
He said that relations between the two countries have maintained good momentum, and the fruitful results from Belt and Road cooperation have brought concrete benefits to their peoples.
China will use the 40th anniversary as an opportunity to work with Bolivia to carry forward traditional friendship, deepen strategic mutual trust and expand mutually beneficial cooperation, he said.
China is Bolivia's second-largest trading partner and its primary source of imports. Last year, bilateral trade reached nearly $2.6 billion, a year-on-year increase of 34.5 percent, statistics showed.
Xi emphasized the need for the two sides to expand cooperation in areas such as infrastructure, plateau agriculture, green development and the digital economy.
He also called on China and Bolivia to deepen coordination within the United Nations and other multilateral institutions to jointly promote solidarity and the common development of Global South countries.
Arce said China's huge achievements in its modernization drive have provided an important reference and guidance for the development of Bolivia and other countries.
Bolivia is willing to work with China to deepen the strategic partnership and strengthen cooperation on infrastructure and connectivity, among other areas, in order to bolster Bolivia's national development and improve people's well-being, Arce added.
The South American country's 2025 plan, a strategic initiative to guide Bolivia's national development, aims to steer the country toward a more prosperous and equitable future.
