Title: Prioritizing education stressed
Date: Dec 20, 2024

President Xi Jinping interacts with students at the library of Macau University of Science and Technology on Thursday. Xi, accompanied by Ho Iat-seng, chief executive of the Macao Special Administrative Region, also talked with teachers and scientific researchers while visiting the university. (XIE HUANCHI/XINHUA)
President Xi Jinping, while visiting Macau University of Science and Technology on Thursday, highlighted the need to prioritize education from a strategic perspective, enable better alignment of academic disciplines with the nation's and Macao's development needs, and foster high-quality talent.
Xi was briefed on the development of the university as well as Macao's higher education overall during a visit to a teaching complex, where he acknowledged the city's adherence to the role of education in serving economic and social development.
The president also toured two State-level key laboratories at the university — one focusing on the quality of traditional Chinese medicine and the other on lunar and planetary science — to learn about the latest scientific research achievements.
Xi emphasized the importance of inheriting, developing and utilizing TCM as a precious legacy, as well as promoting it to the rest of the world.
He said that the work of the lunar and planetary science laboratory has shown that Macao has the capability to conduct cutting-edge, world-class scientific research.
During his visit to the data center for the science and application of satellites, Xi observed the real-time operation of satellites and learned about the research progress and application prospects of Macao Science 1, a joint project of the mainland and Macao.
Noting that Macao Science 1 is a successful example of deepened cooperation between Macao and the mainland in high-tech fields, Xi said the project showcased the outstanding innovative capabilities of Macao's scientific sector.
In May 2023, Xi wrote back to MUST teachers and students who took part in the development of the satellite project, encouraging them to play an active part in the development of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area.
In the university library, Xi talked with teachers, students and scientific researchers, saying he is happy to see that Macao's education is thriving and they are full of vitality and confidence.
The president then expressed the hope and belief that the future of the university and the SAR will be even brighter.
Founded in 2000, Macau University of Science and Technology has rapidly developed into the largest multidisciplinary university in Macao.
Joseph Lee Hun-wei, vice-chancellor and president of MUST, said Xi's recognition during his visit of the achievements of Macao's higher education sector has motivated all MUST students and teachers.
Lee said he was impressed by Xi's approachability and wide knowledge, as well as his care for Macao's young people and education development.
"President Xi assured us that both MUST and Macao have a promising future ahead," said Lee.
Pang Chuan, vice-president of MUST, called Xi's inspection of the university "a spiritual beacon" for MUST's development. Pang said the university will live up to the president's expectations and steer students toward achieving greater scientific research achievements.
Zhao Xichen, head of the MUST library, said the president showed great interest in the library exhibition Global Mapping of Macao. When Xi came across a map of Macao made in 1751, he quickly identified the Catholic Church of Mater Dei, which is known today as the Ruins of St. Paul's.
The president also made a donation to the library, presenting 100 books on TCM, Zhao said.
Freshman student Zhang-Chen Puyuan was preparing for his final exams in the library when President Xi came in. Zhang said he was unaware of the president's visit in advance and was thrilled to be present.
He said Xi asked about the books that the students were reading and encouraged them to engage in more interactions with their peers from the mainland and the world.
Yan Jingchen was also among the students whom Xi talked with in the library. Yan, a postgraduate student from Jiangxi province, is currently pursuing TCM studies at MUST.
Yan said she plans to acquire professional qualifications as a pharmacist in Macao, Hong Kong or other Greater Bay Area cities to start her career, noting Macao's emphasis on and support for TCM and the fact that TCM is deeply ingrained in people's daily life in Macao.
