Title: Xi calls on China, S. Korea to promote sound, steady development of ties
Date: Nov 16, 2024

Chinese President Xi Jinping on Friday called on China and South Korea to promote a sound and steady development of the strategic cooperative partnership between the two countries.
Xi made the remarks in his meeting with South Korean President Yoon Suk-yeol on the sidelines of the 31st APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting.
Since their last meeting two years ago in Bali, Indonesia, the international and regional situations have undergone many changes, Xi noted, adding that bilateral ties have maintained a momentum of development on the whole.
No matter how the situation changes, China and South Korea should stick to the original intention in establishing diplomatic ties, firmly adhere to the direction of good-neighborliness and friendship, and remain committed to the goal of mutual benefit and win-win cooperation, Xi said.
Xi also called on the two sides to give full play to the advantages of geographical proximity, cultural affinity and economic integration to strengthen exchanges and deepen cooperation, and promote a sound and steady development of the strategic cooperative partnership between the two countries, so as to better benefit the two peoples and make greater contribution to regional peace, stability, development and prosperity.
He stressed that China and South Korea should strengthen high-level exchanges, enhance mutual understanding and trust, and strive for mutual achievements and common development.
China is committed to expanding high-level opening-up and welcomes more investment by South Korean enterprises in China, said Xi, urging both sides to jointly safeguard the international free trade system and the stability and smooth flow of global and regional industrial and supply chains.
China and South Korea should also engage in more activities that promote friendship and encourage exchanges between the media, academia, local communities, and especially the youth, he noted.
More South Korean citizens are welcome to visit China, and it is hoped that the South Korean side will introduce more measures to facilitate Chinese citizens' travels to South Korea, said Xi.
China supports South Korea in taking over the role of APEC host next year and is ready to expand multilateral coordination and cooperation with South Korea, he added.
For his part, Yoon said that exchanges and cooperation across various fields between the two sides have developed in an orderly manner since his meeting with Xi two years ago, highlighting China's role as an important engine for global economic growth and a major contributor to addressing the challenges faced by the world.
He noted that South Korea regards China as an important partner and hopes to promote the continuous development of the strategic cooperative partnership between the two countries, based on mutual respect and the original intention of establishing diplomatic ties, in order to better address shared challenges and contribute to regional peace and stability.
Yoon said South Korea's policy of respecting the one-China principle remains unchanged, and hopes to participate in China's modernization process and further strengthen economic and trade cooperation between the two countries.
He welcomed China granting visa-free entry to South Korean citizens, adding he is willing to work closely with China to promote closer cultural and people-to-people exchanges and enhance the friendship between the two peoples.
Yoon said South Korea is willing to enhance communication and cooperation with China within multilateral mechanisms such as APEC to jointly uphold multilateralism and free trade.
