Title: Xi chairs meeting on quake relief
Date: Jan 10, 2025

Top leadership says efforts are at a critical stage
Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, presided over a meeting of the nation's top leadership on Thursday to study and arrange concrete steps for quake relief in the Xizang autonomous region.
The meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee came after a magnitude 6.8 earthquake hit Dingri county in Shigatse on Tuesday. The disaster has left 126 people dead and 337 injured. It also toppled more than 3,600 houses.
Shortly after the quake occurred, Xi made instructions on the disaster, ordering all-out rescue efforts to save lives and minimize casualties.
It was noted at the meeting that in the wake of the earthquake, rescue forces, including those from the China National Comprehensive Fire and Rescue Team, the People's Liberation Army, the armed police and centrally administered enterprises, have overcome the challenges of high altitude and lack of oxygen in the quake-hit region and raced against time to search for and rescue trapped people and minimize casualties, with the overall earthquake relief efforts proceeding smoothly.
It was emphasized at the meeting that the earthquake relief work is currently at a critical stage and there must be no slackening. More meticulous efforts must be made to win the tough battle of quake relief, according to the meeting.
While underlining the need to proceed with rescue and post-disaster relief work, the meeting's participants said that medical experts should be organized for consultations to spare no effort in treating the injured.
Efforts should also be made to ensure that the basic needs of the affected people are met, and makeshift shelters and houses are in place to enable disaster-hit people to be sheltered from the cold winter, they said.
They highlighted the need to accelerate post-disaster recovery and reconstruction efforts, with a focus on repairing infrastructure and restoring normal work and living conditions in the disaster-stricken areas as soon as possible.
The meeting's participants also underscored the importance of releasing authoritative information, enhancing the earthquake resistance of houses and infrastructure in key areas, and improving disaster response capabilities.
Local Party committees and governments are urged to earnestly shoulder their political responsibilities, while officials at all levels must stand at the front line of quake relief, and Party organizations and Party members at grassroots level should fully play their due roles, according to the meeting.
Since the quake occurred, foreign leaders and heads of international organizations have sent condolence messages to Xi, or expressed their sincere sympathy in other ways. They spoke highly of the swift and robust rescue efforts made by the Chinese government, and expressed their confidence that under the strong leadership of the CPC, the people in the disaster-stricken areas will surely overcome the calamity and rebuild their homes.
Work reports heard
On Thursday, Xi also presided over the annual meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee on hearing work reports from the leading Party members groups of the State institutions — the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, the nation's top legislature; the State Council, China's Cabinet; the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, the nation's top political advisory body; the Supreme People's Court; and the Supreme People's Procuratorate — as well as a work report from the Secretariat of the CPC Central Committee.
Since the 18th CPC National Congress in 2012, the CPC Central Committee has heard reports annually on the work of these five leading Party members groups, and a work report of the Secretariat of the CPC Central Committee.
This is an important institutional arrangement to uphold and strengthen the Party's overall leadership, and m
