Title: Xi emphasizes pursuit of common development
Date: Nov 19, 2024

President Xi Jinping shakes hands with British Prime Minister Keir Starmer during their meeting on the sidelines of the 19th G20 Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, on Monday. (WANG ZHUANGFEI/CHINA DAILY)
China, UK urged to deepen mutual trust
Beijing and London should realize mutual benefits and win-win results, and jointly write the next chapter of China-UK relations featuring healthy and stable development, President Xi Jinping said when meeting with British Prime Minister Keir Starmer.
They met on the sidelines of the 19th G20 Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, on Monday, marking their first face-to-face meeting since Starmer took office as prime minister in July.
Xi said that the two sides "should keep defining each other as strategic partners" and stick to mutual respect, openness, cooperation, exchanges and mutual understanding.
He emphasized that the two countries "share a wide range of common interests despite their differences in history, culture, values and social systems".
The two sides should look at each other's development in a rational and objective way, strengthen strategic communication, enhance political mutual trust, and ensure that China-UK relations advance in a stable, practical and far-reaching manner, Xi said.
He added that the two countries should continue to expand the space for cooperation in areas such as trade and investment, clean energy, financial services, medical care and people's livelihoods, in order to better benefit the two peoples.
Starmer said a strong and enduring UK-China relationship is important for both countries and the world.
London hopes to uphold the spirit of mutual respect, equality and frankness, and work with Beijing to strengthen dialogue and enhance mutual understanding, he said.
Starmer said he hopes that the two sides will carry out exchanges and cooperation in a wide range of areas, including trade, science and technology, finance and economy, health and medical care, education and climate change response.
Xi held his first phone conversation with Starmer in August.
Observers noted that in recent months, China and the UK have seen good momentum in exchanges at various levels, as senior officials from the two countries, including ministers, have held talks or made phone calls covering areas such as foreign policy, the economy, finance and energy.
Speaking on the relations' global influence on Monday, Xi cited the common identity of the two countries as permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and major world economies.
Both countries shoulder "the great duty of driving their own development as well as the responsibility of addressing global challenges", he noted.
The two sides should facilitate the political settlement of hot spot issues, strengthen global governance of artificial intelligence, and contribute to boosting world economic growth and realizing the common development of various countries, he added.
