Title: Xi hails success of 'one country, two systems'
Date: Dec 21, 2024

President Xi Jinping waves to attendees at a gathering celebrating the 25th anniversary of Macao's return to the motherland and the inaugural ceremony of the sixth-term government of the Macao Special Administrative Region in Macao on Friday. (XIE HUANCHI/XINHUA)
President Xi Jinping stressed on Friday long-term adherence to "one country, two systems" and urged Macao to continue with efforts to diversify its economy, as he addressed a gathering in celebration of the 25th anniversary of Macao's return to the motherland.
Speaking to an audience of more than 1,000 people in a major sports stadium in Macao, Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, praised the tremendous success of practicing "one country, two systems" with Macao characteristics over the past years.
"The great achievements of Macao since its return to the motherland have proven to the world that the cause of 'one country, two systems', with its distinctive institutional strengths and strong vitality, is a good system that sustains the long-term prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and Macao," he said.
Xi said that it is a good system that serves the noble cause of building a stronger country and achieving national rejuvenation, and a good system that helps realize peaceful coexistence and win-win cooperation between different social systems.
The values of peace, inclusiveness, openness and sharing embodied in "one country, two systems" are common to China and the rest of the world, and deserve to be jointly safeguarded, he added.
Macao and its neighbor Hong Kong are China's two special administrative regions governed under the "one country, two systems" policy since China resumed the exercise of sovereignty over them following long periods of Portuguese and British rule, respectively. The policy allows them to maintain their capitalist systems and ways of life within socialist China.
With China entering a crucial period of advancing Chinese modernization, Xi said the policy has entered a new stage and will contribute more to Hong Kong and Macao's development and the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.
John Lee Ka-chiu, chief executive of the Hong Kong SAR, said that President Xi's speech reiterates his support for Hong Kong and Macao joining hands to drive future progress from a new and higher vantage point, offers a crystal clear direction for future development, and further illuminates the path forward for the two regions.
On Friday, Sam Hou-fai, a 62-year-old former senior judge, was sworn in as the sixth-term chief executive of the Macao SAR, in a ceremony officiated by Xi.
Speaking at the gathering, Xi urged the new Macao government to promote the appropriate diversification of the local economy, improve governance efficiency, build a platform for higher-level opening-up, and safeguard social harmony and stability.
"It should be noted that the central authorities' decision to develop Hengqin is aimed at promoting appropriate economic diversification in Macao and facilitating the life and work of Macao residents," Xi said, cautioning that sectors and projects deviating from this purpose must be avoided.
Macao was once labeled a "casino city" for its dominant gaming industry, but that situation is changing as the city makes efforts to appropriately diversify its economy.
Hengqin, located at the southern tip of Guangdong province's Zhuhai and separated from Macao by a stretch of water, is an important platform for promoting the appropriate and diversified development of Macao's economy.
