Title: Xi outlines China's 8 actions for global development during G20 Summit
Date: Nov 19, 2024

Chinese President Xi Jinping on Monday outlined China's eight actions for global development in his remarks at Session I of the 19th G20 Summit on Fight Against Hunger and Poverty in Rio de Janeiro.
The first is to pursue high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. On top of 700 billion yuan (96.7 billion U.S. dollars) added financing windows and an additional 80 billion yuan (11.1 billion dollars) injection into the Silk Road Fund, China is moving ahead with the development of the multidimensional Belt and Road connectivity network, one that is led by the building of a green Silk Road and will empower a digital Silk Road.
The second is to implement the Global Development Initiative. On the basis of over 1,100 development projects already in operation, China will make sure the Global South research center that is being built is fit for purpose, and the 20 billion U.S. dollars of development funds will continue to be put to good use to support developing countries and deepen practical cooperation in areas such as poverty reduction, food security, and digital economy.
The third is to support the development in Africa. Xi said that at the Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation held in September, he unveiled ten partnership actions on joining hands with Africa to advance modernization over the next three years and, in this connection, a commitment of 360 billion yuan (49.7 billion dollars) in financial support.
The fourth is to support international cooperation on poverty reduction and food security. China decides to join the Global Alliance Against Hunger and Poverty, supports the G20 in continuing to convene the Development Ministerial Meeting, and will stay a committed host of the International Conference on Food Loss and Waste.
The fifth is that China, alongside Brazil, South Africa and the African Union, is proposing an Initiative on International Cooperation in Open Science to help the Global South gain better access to global advances in science, technology and innovation.
The sixth is to support the G20 in carrying out practical cooperation for the benefit of the Global South and using such outcomes as the Roadmap to Increase Investment in Clean Energy in Developing Countries and the High-Level Principles on Bioeconomy to good effect. China supports the work of the Entrepreneurship Research Center on G20 Economies based in Beijing, and supports cooperation on digital education and the digitization of museums and ancient archives.
The seventh is to implement the G20 Anti-Corruption Action Plan. China is strengthening cooperation with fellow developing countries in fugitive repatriation and asset recovery, denial of safe haven, and anti-corruption capacity building.
The eighth is that China is pursuing high-standard opening up, and unilaterally opening its doors wider to the least developed countries (LDCs). China has announced the decision to give all LDCs having diplomatic relations with China zero-tariff treatment for 100 percent tariff lines. From now to 2030, China's imports from other developing countries are likely to top 8 trillion dollars.
The Global Alliance Against Hunger and Poverty was launched at the first session of the summit.
