Title: Xi stresses adapting Marxism to Chinese context
Date: Nov 30, 2024

President Xi Jinping has called for innovation in studying Marxist theory in the new era, urging greater efforts to adapt Marxism to the Chinese context and the needs of the times.
Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remarks in an instruction on the project of studying and developing Marxist theory in the new era.
A work meeting on the project was held in Beijing on Friday. Xi's instructions were conveyed at the meeting.
Xi emphasized the significance of studying and developing Marxist theory as the foundational and strategic project of the Party in strengthening ideological and theoretical work.
Over the past 20 years, the project has focused on the central tasks of the Party and served the overall development of the country, producing a multitude of high-quality research outcomes, he said.
It has played a crucial role in studying, researching and promoting the Party's innovative theories and consolidating the position of Marxism in guiding the development of the ideological domain, he added.
Xi underlined the need to focus on studying, promoting and implementing the Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, and promote innovation in deepening theoretical research and interpretation of the Thought in a systematic way to make the Party's innovative theories more deeply rooted in the hearts of the people.
It is essential to delve into significant issues related to the nation's efforts to build a strong country and advance national rejuvenation with Chinese modernization, and accelerate the establishment of an independent knowledge system in Chinese philosophy and social sciences, he said.
Cai Qi, a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and a member of the Secretariat of the CPC Central Committee, attended Friday's meeting.
In his speech, Cai emphasized the importance of deepening research on the fundamental principles of Marxism, and called for responding to the specific practical issues with research achievements.
He also highlighted that the Party's innovative theories should always serve as a guide in research with emphasis on the needs of the times and China's reality.
