Title: Xi urges new progress in modernization
Date: Dec 17, 2024

President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, delivers an important speech at a meeting to mark the 100th anniversary of the birth of late top legislator Qiao Shi, Dec 16, 2024. (Photo/Xinhua)
President Xi Jinping called on Monday for constant efforts to achieve new accomplishments that will stand the test of history and time and fulfill the expectations of the people, amid China's drive to build a strong country and advance national rejuvenation.
Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remarks while addressing a meeting held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing to mark the 100th anniversary of the birth of late top legislator Qiao Shi.
Xi praised Qiao's outstanding contributions to the Party and the country, and called for learning from his revolutionary spirit and noble character.
Qiao was a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee. He served as head of the CPC Central Commission for Discipline Inspection from 1987 to 1992, promoting the building of a clean Party and improving anti-corruption laws and rules.
Widely known as a champion of rule of law, Qiao served as chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, China's top legislature, from 1993 to 1998. He supervised revisions to the Constitution, which saw the theory of building socialism with Chinese characteristics written into the Constitution as a guiding principle. He also oversaw legislative work on a series of economic laws so that the legal framework of the socialist market economy could take shape.
In his speech on Monday, Xi said that generations of outstanding communists have emerged in the great process of China's revolution, construction and reform, and he stressed that Qiao was one of them.
Xi said that commemorating Qiao is for the purpose of learning from him in maintaining a noble character of upholding firm beliefs and ideals, promoting better Party conduct with strict Party discipline, serving the people with the original aspiration in mind, and carrying out bold reforms with great political courage.
He also emphasized the need to learn from Qiao's unwavering pursuit of respecting and enforcing the rule of law and his practical and realistic work style.
While highlighting the need to firm up the communist ideal, Xi urged upholding the overall leadership of the Party as well as the centralized and unified leadership of the CPC Central Committee.
It is important to steadfastly exercise full and rigorous governance over the Party, vigorously improve conduct and combat corruption in strengthening the Party, in order to maintain the Party's advanced nature and integrity, he said.
Xi also underscored the necessity to always adhere to the fundamental purpose of wholeheartedly serving the people, uphold people-centered development, effectively safeguard the fundamental interests of the people and ensure that the achievements of modernization benefit all the people more fairly.
He called for further deepening comprehensive reform and advancing high-level opening-up, and emphasized the need to build a modern socialist country on the track of rule of law.
It is crucial to resolutely oppose formalism and bureaucratism, focus on promoting development and take solid steps to advance Chinese modernization, Xi added.
