 
People watch a lion dance performance at the Chinese Garden of Serenity in Santa Lucija, Malta, Oct. 1, 2023. The Chinese community in Malta gathered at the Chinese Garden of Serenity in Santa Lucija on Sunday to celebrate the 74th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. (Xinhua/Chen Wenxian)
VALLETTA, Oct. 1 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese community in Malta gathered at the Chinese Garden of Serenity in Santa Lucija on Sunday to celebrate the 74th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China.
The event organized by the Chinese Community Association in Malta featured various activities, including song and dance performances, poetry recitations, martial arts and Tai Chi demonstrations. Visitors could also take part in fun games such as hitting a balloon with their heads.
This joyous event attracted hundreds of participants, including enthusiastic Maltese.
In his speech, Peng Yijun, charge d'affaires of the Chinese Embassy in Malta, noted that China's proposals, such as the Belt and Road Initiative, Global Development Initiative, Global Security Initiative and Global Civilization Initiative, have achieved fruitful results and made contributions to world peace and development, receiving widespread support from countries around the world, including Malta.
He highlighted the profound friendship between China and Malta, lauding the Chinese community as a vital "bridge and link" in the lasting China-Malta friendship.
He hoped that they will continue to actively promote people-to-people exchanges between the two nations, and be good heirs and promoters of the China-Malta friendship in the new era.
Charmaine St. John, the mayor of Santa Lucija, said the celebration on the day is also a momentous occasion to commemorate the enduring friendship between Malta and China. She expressed her willingness to continue collaborating closely with the Chinese Community Association in Malta to facilitate a wide range of cultural activities.
Speaking of her upcoming visit to China in mid-October, her first-ever trip to the country, she said: "I believe this will be an impressive trip."
Chen Juheng, chairman of the Chinese Community Association in Malta, said that China's remarkable achievements have filled overseas Chinese with great pride. He affirmed their unwavering commitment to acting as a bridge, continuously contributing to promoting friendship between China and Malta. ■
People participate in a fun game at the Chinese Garden of Serenity in Santa Lucija, Malta, Oct. 1, 2023. The Chinese community in Malta gathered at the Chinese Garden of Serenity in Santa Lucija on Sunday to celebrate the 74th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. (Xinhua/Chen Wenxian)
Members of the Chinese medical team to Malta perform Tai Chi at the Chinese Garden of Serenity in Santa Lucija, Malta, Oct. 1, 2023. The Chinese community in Malta gathered at the Chinese Garden of Serenity in Santa Lucija on Sunday to celebrate the 74th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. (Xinhua/Chen Wenxian)