The release event of an annual flagship report by the China Chamber of Commerce to the EU (CCCEU) is held in Brussels, Belgium, Nov. 14, 2023. In collaboration with global strategy consulting firm Roland Berger, the CCCEU released the chamber's annual flagship report titled "Building Trust, Boosting Prosperity." The report sees Chinese enterprises' rating of the EU business environment dipping for the fourth year in a row, albeit at a slower pace. (Xinhua/Zhao Dingzhe)
BRUSSELS, Nov. 15 (Xinhua) -- In collaboration with global strategy consulting firm Roland Berger, the China Chamber of Commerce to the EU (CCCEU) released the chamber's annual flagship report titled "Building Trust, Boosting Prosperity."
The report sees Chinese enterprises' rating of the EU business environment dipping for the fourth year in a row, albeit at a slower pace.
Out of the nearly 180 enterprises surveyed or interviewed, 90 percent reported a revenue increase in the EU, significantly higher than the 70 percent from last year, and about 80 percent of them have plans to invest more.
Generally confident in the European market, about 63 percent of Chinese firms operating in the continent have been disturbed by the European Union's "de-risking" policy, said the CCCEU on Tuesday.
Nearly half of the respondents note a further deterioration in the EU political environment over the past year. They attribute the deterioration to the bloc's "de-risking" approach, policy complexity, and rising trade barriers.
Xu Chen, the CCCEU Chairman, said Sino-EU economic ties hit a milestone in 2022, with daily trade surpassing 2 billion euros (2.17 billion U.S. dollars). Traditionally dominated by electronics and automobiles, bilateral trade shows a notable surge in high-tech and green products like solar panels and electric vehicles.
"Good cooperation between two of the biggest economies has an irreplaceable role in global economic stability," said Fang Dongkui, Secretary General of the CCCEU.
China and the EU share a common understanding of green development and complement each other's strengths in digital transformation, so there is a bright future for cooperation between the two sides, added Fang.
Set up in 2018, the Brussels-based CCCEU speaks for some 1,000 Chinese enterprises operating in the EU, with chambers in EU member states. ■
Xu Chen, the China Chamber of Commerce to the EU (CCCEU) Chairman, speaks during the release event of an annual flagship report by the CCCEU in Brussels, Belgium, Nov. 14, 2023. In collaboration with global strategy consulting firm Roland Berger, the CCCEU released the chamber's annual flagship report titled "Building Trust, Boosting Prosperity." The report sees Chinese enterprises' rating of the EU business environment dipping for the fourth year in a row, albeit at a slower pace. (Xinhua/Zhao Dingzhe)