BELGRADE, Nov. 21 (Xinhua) -- China's expanding role in world affairs, alongside the promising dimensions of its strategic endeavors, is poised to engender new opportunities for cooperation, spur development, and usher in an era of innovative global diplomacy, experts at the Institute of International Politics and Economics in Belgrade (IIPE) have said.
The increasing prominence of China on the international stage is reshaping the landscape of global dynamics, they said while discussing the profound impact of China's new initiatives in the fields of security, development and international cooperation.
From the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) to the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative, experts agreed that China's influence is widening, transforming traditional geopolitical dynamics, and heralding a new era of "inclusive multipolarity."
In an interview with Xinhua, Katarina Zakic, head of the Center for the Belt and Road Initiative at the IIPE, emphasized the important effect of the BRI in Serbia, particularly its substantial investments in infrastructure.
"BRI projects in Serbia have been thus far the highest in terms of the number of projects and value in the Western Balkans," she said.
IIPE's Deputy Director Ivona Ladjevac highlighted China's dedication to fostering connectivity and expanding its international partnerships, including its collaboration within organizations including the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and BRICS.
Ladjevac also elaborated on China's Global Security Initiative, underlining the significance of multilateral security cooperation.
The Global Development Initiative aligns with the 2030 UN sustainable development agenda, offering a more robust, eco-friendly, and balanced global development approach, she said.
She also emphasized the Global Civilization Initiative's focus on cultural diversity and exchange.
"Even in the current state of international relations burdened with numerous challenges, China remains committed to advocating the idea of creating a global community of shared future, which should steer us away from disruptive forces," she said. ■