Delegates pose for photos after signing papers at the 6th China International Import Expo (CIIE) roadshow in London, Britain, on May 25, 2023. The 6th CIIE roadshow held here on Thursday was attended by over 200 representatives from the British government, business associations and enterprises. The 6th CIIE is scheduled to be held in Shanghai, China, between Nov. 5 and Nov. 10. (Xinhua/Li Ying)
LONDON, May 26 (Xinhua) -- The 6th China International Import Expo (CIIE) roadshow held here on Thursday was attended by over 200 representatives from the British government, business associations and enterprises.
The CIIE serves as a window for China to share development opportunities with the world, and China welcomes the British government and businesses to make the most of the expo to achieve greater success in the Chinese market, Bao Ling, minister of Chinese Embassy in the United Kingdom, said.
The expo is China's major decision to promote its opening up in the new era and a great action to proactively open Chinese market to the world, Liu Fuxue, deputy director of the CIIE Bureau, said at the roadshow.
Several well-known UK brands, such as AstraZeneca, Unilever, Burberry and HSBC, have been keen participants in the CIIE, Liu said.
Lise Bertelsen, executive director of the China-Britain Business Council (CBBC), said it was imperative for the world's second and sixth largest economies to continue to work together, talk to each other and develop activities.
Calling the CIIE an excellent opportunity for UK businesses to enter and expand in the Chinese market, Bertelsen said the CBBC has been and will continue to be involved in the CIIE and would love to deepen the partnership in the future.
The 6th CIIE is scheduled to be held in Shanghai, China, between Nov. 5 and Nov. 10. ■
 
This photo taken on May 25, 2023 shows a scene at the 6th China International Import Expo (CIIE) roadshow in London, Britain. The 6th CIIE roadshow held here on Thursday was attended by over 200 representatives from the British government, business associations and enterprises. The 6th CIIE is scheduled to be held in Shanghai, China, between Nov. 5 and Nov. 10. (Xinhua/Li Ying)
Lise Bertelsen, executive director of the China-Britain Business Council (CBBC), addresses the 6th China International Import Expo (CIIE) roadshow in London, Britain, on May 25, 2023. The 6th CIIE roadshow held here on Thursday was attended by over 200 representatives from the British government, business associations and enterprises. The 6th CIIE is scheduled to be held in Shanghai, China, between Nov. 5 and Nov. 10. (Xinhua/Li Ying)
Liu Fuxue, deputy director of the China International Import Expo (CIIE) Bureau, addresses the 6th CIIE roadshow in London, Britain, on May 25, 2023. The 6th CIIE roadshow held here on Thursday was attended by over 200 representatives from the British government, business associations and enterprises. The 6th CIIE is scheduled to be held in Shanghai, China, between Nov. 5 and Nov. 10. (Xinhua/Li Ying)