Photo taken on Oct. 25, 2023 shows books of the "China in Maltese Eyes" at a launch event in Valletta, Malta. The English version of the book "China in Maltese Eyes" was launched here on Wednesday by Heritage Malta and the China Cultural Center, which began collaborating on the project two years ago. The book features contributions from over 20 Maltese people of diverse backgrounds, who have shared their experiences of Chinese culture, history, and contemporary development. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua)
VALLETTA, Oct. 26 (Xinhua) -- The English version of the book "China in Maltese Eyes" was launched here on Wednesday by Heritage Malta and the China Cultural Center, which began collaborating on the project two years ago.
The book features contributions from over 20 Maltese people of diverse backgrounds, who have shared their experiences of Chinese culture, history, and contemporary development.
It provides a glimpse of China's exquisite natural landscapes, its rich and profound culture, and the evolving social landscape of modernization in the country.
"Their narratives not only shed light on the profound cultural heritage and beauty of China, but also offer unique and valuable perspectives," said Peng Yijun, charge d'affaires at the Chinese Embassy in Malta, at the book launch event.
"China in Maltese Eyes" is "a testament to the collective wisdom of all its contributors, and serves as a significant milestone in the enduring friendship between China and Malta," Peng added.
Albert Marshall, executive chairman of Arts Council Malta and one of the contributors to the book, was inspired to write the poetry collection "Six Chinese Lanterns" after being invited by the China Cultural Center to visit the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region in southwest China in 2019.
Marshall highlighted that the collaboration between Arts Council Malta and the Cultural Center has promoted cultural exchange and cooperation, and deepened understanding between Malta and China.
"China in Maltese Eyes" demonstrates the ways in which international relations can be fortified through culture, Marshall said.
Mario Cutajar, chairman of Heritage Malta, has just returned from his latest visit to China, which he said had strengthened his understanding of China's ancient history and culture.
He was particularly impressed by China's rapid development, he said.
The publication of "China in Maltese Eyes" marks a new beginning for cultural exchange and cooperation between the two countries, Cutajar said.
During the book launch, Yuan Yuan, director of the China Cultural Center in Malta, highlighted the Center's two-decades-long commitment to introducing Chinese culture to Maltese people through a wide range of events and programs.
"We've been working consistently to build a bridge that spans the geographical distance between our nations and bring our two peoples together to celebrate rich history, diverse traditions, and common humanity," Yuan said. ■
 
Mario Cutajar (R), chairman of Heritage Malta, speaks during the launch event of the book "China in Maltese Eyes" in Valletta, Malta, on Oct. 25, 2023. The English version of the book "China in Maltese Eyes" was launched here on Wednesday by Heritage Malta and the China Cultural Center, which began collaborating on the project two years ago. The book features contributions from over 20 Maltese people of diverse backgrounds, who have shared their experiences of Chinese culture, history, and contemporary development. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua)
Albert Marshall (R), executive chairman of Arts Council Malta, speaks during the launch event of the book "China in Maltese Eyes" in Valletta, Malta, on Oct. 25, 2023. The English version of the book "China in Maltese Eyes" was launched here on Wednesday by Heritage Malta and the China Cultural Center, which began collaborating on the project two years ago. The book features contributions from over 20 Maltese people of diverse backgrounds, who have shared their experiences of Chinese culture, history, and contemporary development. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua)
Albert Marshall, executive chairman of Arts Council Malta, speaks during the launch event of the book "China in Maltese Eyes" in Valletta, Malta, on Oct. 25, 2023. The English version of the book "China in Maltese Eyes" was launched here on Wednesday by Heritage Malta and the China Cultural Center, which began collaborating on the project two years ago. The book features contributions from over 20 Maltese people of diverse backgrounds, who have shared their experiences of Chinese culture, history, and contemporary development. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua)
People read the book "China in Maltese Eyes" during a launch event in Valletta, Malta, on Oct. 25, 2023. The English version of the book "China in Maltese Eyes" was launched here on Wednesday by Heritage Malta and the China Cultural Center, which began collaborating on the project two years ago. The book features contributions from over 20 Maltese people of diverse backgrounds, who have shared their experiences of Chinese culture, history, and contemporary development. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua)