MANCHESTER, Britain, June 19 (Xinhua) -- People in the United Kingdom (UK) are getting increasingly serious about dragon boat racing, a sport which originated in China thousands of years ago.
For many enthusiasts who train regularly in dragon boat clubs, the spirit of camaraderie is what they cherish most.
"I got into dragon boat racing in 2008. Thoroughly enjoyed it. And I'm still here ... The camaraderie of a dragon boat race is second to none," Neil Pickles, chair of the British Dragon Boat Racing Association (BDA) said.
The BDA organized a professional competition at Salford Quays in Greater Manchester on Sunday. Over ten clubs took part in the contest.
Pickles told Xinhua that the BDA's membership is increasing, "We're now back to about where we were pre-COVID, if not slightly ahead."
He said he hoped that there will be more competition between British teams and their Chinese counterparts. "More competition is the only way you get better."
"We've competed in China many times, and we've learned a lot," David Bangs, founder of the Amathus Dragon Boat Club, said.
He told Xinhua that he has been paddling for many years in canoes and kayaks before dragon boating, and that "dragon boating is the best sport in the world."
Bangs first became involved with the sport as a paddler in 1988 when he went to China's Fujian Province to compete in an international dragon boat race.
"This trip really opened my eyes to the wonders of dragon boat racing and I have been totally committed ever since, wanting to make our boats go even faster than the Chinese," Bangs said.
When Bangs returned from his "inspirational trip to China," he founded the Amathus Dragon Boat Club.
"Dragon boating is all about working together for your friends and putting your heart and soul into a race. ... You win or lose together. You share that camaraderie together. That's what dragon boat racing to me is all about," Bangs said to Xinhua.
Teijo Palovaara, a young paddler of the Thames Dragon Boat Club, has the same passion for dragon boating like Bangs and Pickles.
"I've been living in London since 2015. That's when I started dragon boat racing as well," he said. He trains in the club twice a week in the summer, each time lasting for two to three hours.
Palovaara has attended several international competitions, including in Beijing and Guangzhou, but he still remembers the first time that he rowed a dragon boat. "I could barely keep up with anyone else. But that's just how you start and this is like how anyone starts."
He said team spirit is important because "everyone has the same pace and same destination" in a contest.
In Palovaara's view, dragon boating is a good sport. "Good exercise for cardio and also strength training."
These professional dragon boat paddlers are all familiar with the origin of the sport and the name of a Chinese ancient poet and noble -- Qu Yuan, who drowned himself in a river after he was banished and accused of treason for his well-intended advice to the king of the State of Chu during the Warring States Period (475 B.C.-221 B.C.).
The Dragon Boat Festival, also known as Duanwu Festival, is traditionally celebrated on the fifth day of the fifth month of the Chinese lunar calendar to commemorate Qu and the dragon boat race is one of many traditions in celebration of the festival.
Sunday's competition was part of the 2023 UK Chinese Dragon Boat Festival, an annual event that has gained popularity in the country.
On Saturday, up to 40 amateur teams of students, companies, and local social entities also competed in the dragon boat race.
"It's great to see that number of paddlers getting involved in dragon boat racing. I'd like to see some of those paddlers joining clubs, setting up clubs, and doing it more than once a year," Pickles said. ■