This aerial photo taken on Dec 22, 2023 shows the Lajkovac-Valjevo motorway built by Chinese Shandong Hi-Speed Group in Valjevo, Serbia. A 12-km stretch of the Chinese-built motorway connecting the cities of Lajkovac and Valjevo in western Serbia is scheduled to be opened to traffic this Saturday, Serbia's President Aleksandar Vucic said during his visit to the construction site on Friday. (Photo by Wang Wei/Xinhua)
BELGRADE, Dec. 22 (Xinhua) -- A 12-km stretch of the Chinese-built motorway connecting the cities of Lajkovac and Valjevo in western Serbia is scheduled to be opened to traffic this Saturday, Serbia's President Aleksandar Vucic said during his visit to the construction site on Friday.
Accompanied by Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure Goran Vesic, Vucic commended the progress made by the Chinese Shandong Hi-Speed Group and confirmed the opening of the Lajkovac-Divci section of the motorway.
The remaining 5.2-km stretch of the motorway is scheduled to be completed in 2024, he said.
According to Vucic, this strategic connection will enhance Valjevo's accessibility to Belgrade and the broader region. ■
Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic (Front) shakes hands with a Chinese builder during a visit to the construction site of the Lajkovac-Valjevo motorway built by Chinese Shandong Hi-Speed Group, in Valjevo, Serbia, on Dec. 22, 2023. A 12-km stretch of the Chinese-built motorway connecting the cities of Lajkovac and Valjevo in western Serbia is scheduled to be opened to traffic this Saturday, Serbia's President Aleksandar Vucic said during his visit to the construction site on Friday. (Photo by Wang Wei/Xinhua)
Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic (C) listens to introductions during a visit to the construction site of the Lajkovac-Valjevo motorway built by Chinese Shandong Hi-Speed Group, in Valjevo, Serbia, on Dec. 22, 2023. A 12-km stretch of the Chinese-built motorway connecting the cities of Lajkovac and Valjevo in western Serbia is scheduled to be opened to traffic this Saturday, Serbia's President Aleksandar Vucic said during his visit to the construction site on Friday. (Photo by Wang Wei/Xinhua)
This aerial photo taken on Dec 22, 2023 shows the Lajkovac-Valjevo motorway built by Chinese Shandong Hi-Speed Group in Valjevo, Serbia. A 12-km stretch of the Chinese-built motorway connecting the cities of Lajkovac and Valjevo in western Serbia is scheduled to be opened to traffic this Saturday, Serbia's President Aleksandar Vucic said during his visit to the construction site on Friday. (Photo by Wang Wei/Xinhua)