VALLETTA, June 6 (Xinhua) -- An exhibition showcasing the tea culture of Xi'an, Shaanxi Province in northwest China, commenced on Tuesday at the China Cultural Centre in Malta.
Titled "Ancient Tea with New Glamour," the exhibition features classic books, wares, and creative products of tea culture, as well as specialties of Xi'an -- one of the ancient capitals of China.
The exhibition's four sections -- "Ancient Tea Wares and Classics," "Ancient Techniques," "Technical Innovation" and "Pictures and Items," -- tell visitors about China's vast territory and abundant resources, and about the extensive and profound culture in the ancient capital of Xi'an.
"It's nice because we're drinking tea and enjoying the Chinese culture," Marita Abdilla, head of the Malta Visual and Performing Arts school, told Xinhua.
"As you wander through the various displays and immerse yourselves in the exquisite artifacts, paintings, and photographs, I hope you will feel the profound connection between tea and the essence of Xi'an's heritage," Yuan Yuan, director of the China Cultural Centre in Malta said at the opening ceremony.
The "Ancient Tea with New Glamour" exhibition, co-organized by the China Cultural Centre in Malta and Xi'an Municipal Bureau of Culture and Tourism, will run until the end of 2023.
At an ensuing awards ceremony for the 14th "Imagining China" children's art competition themed "Celebrating Friendship with Flowers," 18 Maltese students from different middle schools were recognized.
The Ministry for Education, Sport, Youth, Research and Innovation "welcomes and nurtures the long-standing relations between our two countries, which have reaped rewarding progress for both countries in the political, economic, and cultural fields," said Mary Scicluna, director general of the people management at the ministry.
"Our excellent relationship, based on mutual trust and respect, is a successful one and continues to enhance through increased political, economic, and cultural cooperation," she said.
Isaac Abdilla, a 10th-grade student from Stella Maris College in Malta, won the competition's first prize. This was his first time participating in the competition. He told Xinhua that his artwork depicted blooming roses entwined by several pairs of hands, symbolizing the friendship between the peoples of Malta and China.
This annual art competition, co-organized by Malta's Ministry of Education, provides a platform for students to showcase their creativity and talent and also serves as a bridge of cultural understanding between our two nations, Yuan told Xinhua. ■