BERLIN, Dec. 17 (Xinhua) -- After meeting with local visitors for the last time earlier this month, four-year-old panda twins Pit and Paule, the first giant pandas born in Germany, boarded a flight to China Saturday afternoon.
Staff of Zoo Berlin would accompany the twins during the flight.
As previously agreed between China and Germany, the twins, named Meng Xiang and Meng Yuan in Chinese, would be sent to Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding, an institution for giant panda scientific research and breeding.
"The birth of the first giant pandas in Germany was not only a personally moving experience but also a highlight in my professional career as a zoo veterinarian and zoo director that nothing will easily eclipse," said Andreas Knieriem, director of the zoo.
Born on Aug. 31, 2019, the panda twins had their fourth birthday this summer, their last one in Germany. Earlier this month, Zoo Berlin held a farewell ceremony for them.
In 2017, the twins' parents Meng Meng and Jiao Qing were sent to Berlin from Chengdu, making them the only two giant pandas in Germany.
At birth, the twins were as light as a bar of chocolate and were dependent on their mother's all-around care, according to the zoo.
The twins have "brought Berliners and many tourists a lot of joy in recent years," said Berlin Mayor Kai Wegner at the ceremony. "Slowly, it's time to say goodbye."
Zoo Berlin recently released a collection of video footage of the twins' growth during the first four years of their lives on social media platforms.
"It has been nice to meet and fall in love with you guys. Have a nice trip," fans posted their farewell.
The zoo also launched a campaign to collect paintings and designs for the twin pandas. Fans in Germany sent their various designs this month, which would be sent to China together with the twins.
It will not be too hard for the panda parents to say goodbye, as the panda teenagers and their mother have already been living separately for two years, said the zoo.
The period between one and three years old is the most active stage for giant pandas, during which they spend most of their time playing, exploring, and climbing trees every day besides eating. Captive male giant pandas become sexually mature at about six years old. After moving to China, the twins are expected to be able to find their partners.
Starting from Sunday, it would be a brand-new environment for these two. But at least communication would not be a problem. According to the zoo, the accompanying staff would explain to their Chinese colleagues how to communicate with Meng Xiang and Meng Yuan through hand gestures.
"So far, everything went smoothly, and the adventure now begins," the zoo said on its social media platform. ■