A member of China's Nanjing University's Traditional Instruments Orchestra plays flute during a concert of Chinese classical music in Ljubljana, Slovenia, on Oct. 2, 2023. (Photo by Zeljko Stevanic/Xinhua)
LJUBLJANA, Oct. 2 (Xinhua) -- Nanjing University's Traditional Instruments Orchestra gave a concert of Chinese classical music at the Music Academy of Ljubljana University on Monday.
The concert in the center of the Slovenian capital was attended by over 100 people, including the Ambassador of China to Slovenia Wang Shunqing.
The orchestra, conducted by Professor Zhang Jingbo, played classics such as the theme song for the film Dream of the Red Chamber, and All Birds Pay Homage to the Phoenix.
Danijela Voljc, Slovenian director of the Confucius Institute, said that music respects no borders and does not require translation to be understood.
Vice President of Nanjing University Zhang Junfeng said that the orchestra is a messenger of culture, interpreting the beauty of Chinese music and the diversity of cultures. This promotes mutual understanding and friendship, he added.
The concert was organized by the Confucius Institute in Ljubljana, which was established in 2010 to promote the Chinese language and culture in Slovenia.
The orchestra was founded in 1996 and is composed of undergraduates, graduates and doctoral students from various departments of the university. It has given nearly 1,000 performances all over the world, particularly in countries participating in the Belt and Road initiative. Slovenia joined the initiative in 2017. ■
A member of China's Nanjing University's Traditional Instruments Orchestra plays Sheng during a concert of Chinese classical music in Ljubljana, Slovenia, on Oct. 2, 2023. (Photo by Zeljko Stevanic/Xinhua)
A member of China's Nanjing University's Traditional Instruments Orchestra plays Guzheng during a concert of Chinese classical music in Ljubljana, Slovenia, on Oct. 2, 2023. (Photo by Zeljko Stevanic/Xinhua)
A member of China's Nanjing University's Traditional Instruments Orchestra plays Suona during a concert of Chinese classical music in Ljubljana, Slovenia, on Oct. 2, 2023. (Photo by Zeljko Stevanic/Xinhua)