Conductor Zhang Jingbo performs with the Nanjing University Traditional Chinese Orchestra in Graz, Austria, Sept. 30, 2023. A concert featuring traditional Chinese music was held here on Saturday to celebrate the Chinese Mid-Autumn Festival. The concert, hosted by the Confucius Institute at the University of Graz, attracted an audience of hundreds of people. (Xinhua/He Canling)
GRAZ, Austria, Sept. 30 (Xinhua) -- A concert featuring traditional Chinese music was held here on Saturday to celebrate the Chinese Mid-Autumn Festival.
During the over one-hour concert at Austria's second largest city, musicians from China's Nanjing University Traditional Chinese Orchestra performed more than 10 pieces of traditional Chinese folk music such as "Jasmine Flowers" and "Birds Paying Homage to the Phoenix."
Traditional Chinese musical instruments, such as erhu, bamboo flute and suona, were played by the musicians in the concert.
The concert, hosted by the Confucius Institute at the University of Graz, attracted an audience of hundreds of people.
Chen Wanjie, the institute's director, said that music is a common language of human beings and the concert embodies the spirit of music without borders, adding that the event creates a festive atmosphere for the Mid-Autumn Festival. ■
Zhang Qianya (front) of Nanjing University Traditional Chinese Orchestra performs in Graz, Austria, Sept. 30, 2023. A concert featuring traditional Chinese music was held here on Saturday to celebrate the Chinese Mid-Autumn Festival. The concert, hosted by the Confucius Institute at the University of Graz, attracted an audience of hundreds of people. (Xinhua/He Canling)
Members of Nanjing University Traditional Chinese Orchestra perform in Graz, Austria, Sept. 30, 2023. A concert featuring traditional Chinese music was held here on Saturday to celebrate the Chinese Mid-Autumn Festival. The concert, hosted by the Confucius Institute at the University of Graz, attracted an audience of hundreds of people. (Xinhua/He Canling)