Chinese pianist Liu Shikun performs during the opening of the 17th International Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow, Russia, on June 19, 2023.(Xinhua/Meng Jing)
by Xinhua writers Yuan Xinfang, Chen Ting
MOSCOW, June 23 (Xinhua) -- Liu Shikun, an 84-year-old Chinese pianist, thrilled the Russian audience at the Great Hall of the Moscow State Tchaikovsky Conservatory, where he performed the "Ode to the Yellow River," the second movement of the Yellow River Piano Concerto, with a symphony orchestra.
The pianist painted a beautiful picture for the audience, where they could visualize how the river gives rise to the highest stormy waves as murky streams break on the rapids, forming a chain of numerous bends.
Liu was invited to be a member of the jury panel of the 17th International Tchaikovsky Competition and performed two Chinese pieces at the opening ceremony, which took place in Moscow on Monday evening.
Known as the "Olympiad of classical music," the competition, which takes place every four years, is one of the most renowned music competitions in the world. More than 230 contestants from 23 countries compete in this year's edition covering six categories, including piano, violin and cello.
Liu is not new to this competition. He won second place at the 1st International Tchaikovsky Competition in 1958 and was a jury member for the 10th competition in 1994.
"The first competition was a worldwide sensation, and I was only 19 years old, the youngest participant," Liu said.
"Russia has some of the world's best artists and musicians. I studied at the Moscow State Tchaikovsky Conservatory and studied piano with Soviet musicians in China, so I have a deep affection for Russia," he said.
Concerning the two works he performed at the opening ceremony, Liu said he chose them after much deliberation.
"Both works represent China. I wanted to perform them for the Russian audience and familiarize the people with Chinese music," Liu said.
He believes music knows no boundaries and possesses a unique charm by bringing people together and bridging cultural gaps.
"Music is the language of the world. Classical works are respected throughout the world. For example, Tchaikovsky's 'Swan Lake' is not only treasured in Russia but also the whole world," he said.
On July 1, Liu and some Chinese musicians will perform Chinese and Russian musical masterpieces and international classical works in the Rachmaninov Hall of the Moscow State Tchaikovsky Conservatory, which will introduce outstanding Chinese musicians to the Russian public.
Liu is confident in the development of Chinese musical culture and the prospects for musical exchanges between China and Russia.
"As an advocate of Chinese-Russian musical and cultural exchanges, I will work hard to continue promoting such interactions," he added. ■
Chinese pianist Liu Shikun performs during the opening of the 17th International Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow, Russia, on June 19, 2023.(Xinhua/Meng Jing)
Chinese pianist Liu Shikun performs during the opening of the 17th International Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow, Russia, on June 19, 2023.(Xinhua/Meng Jing)
Chinese pianist Liu Shikun speaks during an interview with Xinhua in Moscow, Russia, on June 19, 2023.(Xinhua/Bai Xueqi)