FRANKFURT, Nov. 9 (Xinhua) -- The China International Import Expo (CIIE) offers an excellent opportunity for foreign businesses to thoroughly analyze the Chinese market and reap the benefits of China's progress, a German business leader told Xinhua in a recent exclusive interview.
"Thanks to the CIIE, we have improved our grasp of the potential in the Chinese market and developed stronger, more cooperative relationships with Chinese manufacturers, suppliers and customers," Daryl Lean, vice president of strategy, marketing and product management at the KION Group Industrial Truck and Services Asia Pacific, said.
The sixth edition of the CIIE, held in Shanghai, China, from Nov.5 to Nov. 10, boasts a robust German presence with over 150 exhibitors, making it one of the largest European representations.
The CIIE assists Germany's small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in refining their positioning, generating more business prospects, and further advancing bilateral economic and trade relations, Lean noted.
He added that China's business environment has become more open and comprehensive since the first CIIE in 2018, which created a solid foundation for the development of multinational companies in China.
The CIIE serves as a powerful international trade fair and symbolizes China's commitment to substantial and effective economic openness, Michael Borchmann, former head of the European and International Affairs Department of the federal German state of Hesse, commented.
Openness is the key to humanity's future prospects and global prosperity, he added.
Automation and supply chain optimization company Dematic, also a member of the KION Group, has participated in the CIIE for six years now. According to Sean Sun, vice president and managing director of Dematic China, attending the CIIE increased the brand's visibility, recognition and trust among industry clients. Sun reaffirmed Dematic's commitment to bringing smart logistics to more people at CIIE in the future.
For German automotive supplies manufacturer Webasto, showcasing innovative technologies is also a crucial aspect of its participation in the CIIE.
"We have participated in the CIIE for six consecutive years, and we deeply appreciate the event. CIIE stands out in three aspects: high standards, high-level visitors and a strong focus on innovation," Zhang Lihua, president of Webasto China, said. The company exhibits the newest advancements in automotive electrification, intelligence and comfort at the fair. ■