VENICE, Italy, Sept. 7 (Xinhua) -- Chinese filmmakers and actors attending the 80th edition of the Venice International Film Festival are upbeat about the future of Chinese cinema, arguing that filming good stories is key to generating a broad and strong resonance among global audiences.
The festival, which runs from Aug. 30 to Sept. 9, attracted Chinese film directors, screenwriters, producers and actors to the Venice Lido island to communicate, share experience and seek cooperation with filmmakers worldwide.
Shu Qi, a member of the jury for the main competition of this year's festival, told Xinhua that although jury members come from diverse cultural backgrounds and have varied perspectives, the power of cinema can break through barriers to the understanding of different cultures.
"Elements that make a film great are palpable to everyone," she said, adding that a director's distinct personal style and good storytelling are key to making good films.
China's rich and profound culture and history is a great strength of Chinese films, and the mythological epic "Creation of the Gods I: Kingdom of Storms" is a good case in point, which can offer audiences a fresh and interesting experience worldwide, she noted.
The film, selected for Venice Production Bridge market screening at this year's festival, is the first segment of the Chinese trilogy "Creation of the Gods."
The trilogy, based on the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) novel "Fengshen Yanyi" or "The Investiture of the Gods," tells the story of the fall of the Shang Dynasty and the rise of the Zhou Dynasty in the 11th century B.C. and the battles between gods, goddesses and mortals.
Wuershan, director of "Creation of the Gods," told Xinhua that people from more than 20 countries and regions have been involved in the production of the trilogy.
"Chinese filmmakers should have more direct communication with global audiences, and more collaboration with filmmakers around the world," he said.
"I believe stories about humanity share more similarities than differences, and I tried my best to make 'Creation of the Gods' as intelligible as possible for audiences regardless of their cultural backgrounds," he said, adding that using effective cinematic techniques to depict Chinese stories in an appealing way will help viewers appreciate the films in a cross-cultural context.
Director and screenwriter Lau Ho Leung opined that audiences around the world are eager to see filmmakers come up with original and new ideas. People are increasingly attentive to the ideas that films convey and the creativity they demonstrate, he said.
Filmmakers should see to it that audiences care about whether filmmakers truly believe in the stories they depict, Lau noted.
"I believe Chinese films can resonate with audiences around the world, if we as filmmakers constantly come up with new ideas and tell the stories we believe in well," he said. "Now is the best time for Chinese filmmakers." ■