This photo taken on Sept. 24, 2024 shows a view of the Duisburg port in Duisburg, Germany. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
DUISBURG, Germany, Sept. 26 (Xinhua) -- The China-Europe Railway Express (CRE) is playing an increasingly important role in stabilizing global industrial and supply chains in a complex geopolitical environment, a German executive at the port of Duisburg, Europe's largest inland port, has said.
"In today's increasingly complex geopolitical climate, the China-Europe Railway Express minimizes the impact of external factors, playing a crucial role in ensuring the stability of global supply chains," said Markus Bangen, chief executive officer of Duisburger Hafen AG (Duisport).
The Duisburg port now serves as a key European terminus of the CRE. When the CRE went into operation in 2011, many saw the idea of a rail connection between Europe and China as "crazy," Bangen said in a recent exclusive interview with Xinhua. Thirteen years later, the service has dispatched more than 90,000 trains, linking 224 cities across 25 European countries.
The CRE now complements shipping and maritime transport, strengthening connections between China's inland and major European hubs.
Bangen labeled the railway as a new international transportation model between Asia and Europe, replacing traditional modes of transport and unlocking trade opportunities that were previously inaccessible. He noted that the service has gained the trust of businesses and the public, proving rail transport a reliable option for fostering cross-Eurasian trade.
The reliability and stability of the CRE have been proven at critical moments. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, when maritime and air transport were disrupted, the CRE emerged as the only reliable transportation option, keeping trade routes open.
Today, amidst international crises, the CRE continues to serve as a stabilizing force. In light of the situation in the Red Sea and shipping delays due to capacity shortages, many companies are turning to this rail link to ensure the safety and stability of their supply chains, Bangen said.
The CRE has been advancing rapidly in recent years. In July this year, a new direct route from Chongqing to Duisburg, traversing the Caspian Sea, was put into operation, covering over 11,000 km and further enhancing sea-rail intermodal transportation. The new route provides a new option for transportation along the so-called Middle Corridor, a trade link between China and Europe that passes through several central Asian and southern Caucasian countries.
The development of the Middle Corridor for the CRE addresses customer needs by reducing the impact of geopolitical issues on logistics amid global supply chain disruptions caused by geopolitical conflicts, Bangen said, adding that Turkey presents strong market demand and growth potential as a key hub along this route.
"The expansion of the Middle Corridor has enriched the route choices of the China-Europe Railway Express, and we are likely to see even more growth opportunities in the near future," Bangen said.
Cargo volumes between China and Europe via the railway have remained stable since the beginning of this year, supported by a strong customer base, he added.
Bangen expressed his confidence in the future of the railway, saying, "We see more possibilities for the China-Europe Railway Express, as well as enormous demand and opportunities for further growth."
Bangen added that Duisburg has gained increasing recognition as a key stop along the railway, attracting more Chinese companies to invest in the city. The logistics industry has become one of Duisburg's most vital sectors, creating job opportunities and benefiting local businesses and residents.
Duisport has established a strong partnership with China State Railway Group Co., Ltd. and China Railway Container Transport Corp., Ltd. (CRCT), marked by continuous improvement through effective communication, Bangen said. ■
This photo taken on Sept. 24, 2024 shows a view of the Duisburg port in Duisburg, Germany. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
Markus Bangen, chief executive officer of Duisburger Hafen AG (Duisport), receives an interview with Xinhua in Duisburg, Germany, Sept. 24, 2024. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
This photo taken on Sept. 24, 2024 shows containers of the China-Europe Railway Express (CRE) at the Duisburg port in Duisburg, Germany. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
This photo taken on Sept. 24, 2024 shows a view of the Duisburg port in Duisburg, Germany. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)