ZAGREB, June 8 (Xinhua) -- The traditional Chinese Duanwu Festival was celebrated here on Saturday as the Croatia-China Cultural Foundation (CCCF) distributed 192 boxes of Zongzi, the traditional Chinese rice pudding, to the local Chinese.
The 192 boxes of Zongzi for distribution were provided to the CCCF by the Zhejiang Provincial Overseas Chinese Affairs Office and the Zhejiang Provincial Overseas Chinese Federation, as the majority of Chinese in Croatia, as well as Europe, are from the province, according to Ye Suixiong, president of the CCCF.
"The Zongzi, although small, embodies the care and love of our hometown and motherland for the overseas Chinese in Croatia," Ye told Xinhua, adding that the CCCF will do its utmost to live up to the expectations of the Zhejiang Province and convey the care and blessing to every Chinese in Croatia.
This was the second time that the CCCF, entrusted by the Zhejiang Provincial Overseas Chinese Affairs Office and the Zhejiang Provincial Overseas Chinese Federation, to organize such an activity in Zagreb to celebrate the Duanwu Festival.
This traditional Chinese festival, which falls on June 10 this year, has a history of over 2,000 years and is celebrated across China and around the world to commemorate Qu Yuan (about 340-278 BC), a patriotic Chinese poet who is known today for his patriotism and contributions to classical verse.
For his part, Wang Peng, minister-counselor at the Chinese embassy in Croatia, expressed his blessings for the local Chinese on the occasion of the traditional Chinese festival.
"I hope these Zongzi from China can help everyone relieve their homesickness on this occasion and feel the care and love from the motherland," Wang said.
Over one week before the scheduled event, the CCCF conducted extensive publicity and notification in the local Chinese circle and the WeChat group and received enthusiastic responses from the local Chinese.
"What a great news!" a Chinese replied in the WeChat group of local Chinese, while another acclaimed, "Superb!" with more people applauding the event by giving thumbs-up signs.
For Jin Yuhao, a Chinese student who has been studying at the Zagreb School of Economics and Management for two years, the tasteful Zongzi will make him less homesick this year, although an old Chinese poem says that one is often more homesick on festive occasions.
"This event makes me deeply feel the care and warmth of the motherland, so this year's Duanwu Festival is particularly warm and meaningful for me," he said. ■