Hungary's Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Levente Magyar speaks during an event celebrating the 75th anniversary of Hungary-China diplomatic relations in Budapest, Hungary on Oct. 24, 2024. (Photo by Attila Volgyi/Xinhua)
BUDAPEST, Oct. 25 (Xinhua) -- Hungary's Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Levente Magyar stressed his country's commitment to strengthening ties with China during an event on Thursday celebrating the 75th anniversary of their diplomatic relations.
In an interview with Xinhua during the event, Magyar reflected on the development of Hungary-China relations and their significance. He highlighted Hungary's "Eastern Opening" policy, initiated over a decade ago to deepen economic and diplomatic ties with Eastern countries, particularly China.
Magyar said that Hungary is committed to seizing opportunities to collaborate with China, highlighting cooperation across business, culture, and infrastructure, particularly through the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). He described the last decade as a "very successful period of confirmed and determined relationship building," with current ties stronger than ever.
Chinese investment has played a key role in this partnership, he said, noting that China ranks among the largest investors in Hungary, particularly in sectors such as the battery industry. This has established Hungary as a critical link between Western and Eastern economic interests, he added.
Commending China-Hungary ties as a model for international relations, Chinese Ambassador to Hungary Gong Tao emphasized China's willingness to work with Hungary to enhance the well-being of the two peoples and promote world peace and development.
The celebration included cultural performances, featuring piano, guitar, and guzheng recitals, as well as Hungarian folk dances. ■
Chinese Ambassador to Hungary Gong Tao speaks during an event celebrating the 75th anniversary of Hungary-China diplomatic relations in Budapest, Hungary on Oct. 24, 2024. (Photo by Attila Volgyi/Xinhua)
Artists perform during an event celebrating the 75th anniversary of Hungary-China diplomatic relations in Budapest, Hungary on Oct. 24, 2024. (Photo by Attila Volgyi/Xinhua)
 