CORDOBA, Spain, Feb. 19 (Xinhua) -- China and Spain should strengthen strategic communication, intensify high-level exchanges, deepen practical cooperation and push for greater development of bilateral relations, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said here on Sunday.
Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks while meeting with Spanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Albares in the southern Spanish city of Cordoba.
Noting that his visit comes as China and Spain embark on the next 50 years of bilateral ties, Wang said Spain, a major country in Europe and a member of the European Union (EU), has important international and regional influences.
China is ready to work with Spain to view bilateral relations with a global vision and from a long-term perspective, promote mutual trust and mutual benefit, highlight strategic stability and practical cooperation, and keep China-Spain relations at the forefront of China-Europe relations, he said.
China appreciates Spain's adherence to the one-China principle and supports Spain in safeguarding its territorial integrity and national unity, Wang said.
Pointing out that China and Spain, as comprehensive strategic partners, both support and practice multilateralism, China's top diplomat called on the two countries to strengthen coordination, join hands in tackling global challenges, and make new contributions to the peace and development of mankind.
The Chinese market, growing rapidly and expanding in scale, will continue to open up to the world, Wang said, adding that China welcomes high-quality products from Spain.
China stands ready to work with Spain to uphold openness and mutual benefit, provide solid support for mutually beneficial cooperation, build an open world economy and advance an inclusive economic globalization that benefits all, he added.
Extending greetings for the Chinese New Year of the Dragon, Albares recalled that last year, Spain and China celebrated the 50th anniversary of diplomatic ties and launched the China-Spain year of culture and tourism. Year 2023 was also marked by Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez's successful visit to China, the role of Spain's rotating presidency of the Council of the EU in the successful EU-China summit, he said.
Albares said Spain stands ready to maintain high-level exchanges with China, activate bilateral cooperation mechanisms and deepen practical cooperation. He said his country supports open and free trade, welcomes Chinese investment and will provide a fair and sound business environment for enterprises from all countries.
The two sides agreed to strengthen cooperation in diverse fields including telecommunications, medical care, electric vehicles and green energy, and enhance friendship between the two peoples.
Albares spoke highly of China's visa-free policy for Spanish citizens and thanked China for its trust and friendship, saying that his country will also actively promote the simplification of procedures for Chinese tourists visiting Spain.
The two sides also exchanged in-depth views on a wide range of international and regional issues. ■