ST. PETERSBURG, Feb. 27 (Xinhua) -- China has already become a leader in the production of electric vehicles, and Russians are showing a growing interest in Chinese-made electric vehicles, a Russian expert said in a recent interview with Xinhua.
Editor-in-chief of Radio Avtodor Igor Morzharetto, who has long been tracking the development of China's auto industry, has visited many Chinese auto manufacturers and industry exhibitions. In his eyes, China's auto industry has changed dramatically compared to 20 years ago.
"Today, China's auto industry is at the forefront of the world, especially in the production of electric and hybrid vehicles," said the auto expert.
In Russia, Chinese cars have already occupied half of the Russian market and their quality is completely comparable to leading brands from Korea, Japan and European countries, Morzharetto noted.
A recent study by the market analytic agency Autostat showed that more than 53 percent of Russians were willing to buy Chinese cars, higher than the rate of 6 percent five years ago, he cited.
"This change indicates a significant increase in Russian consumers' trust in Chinese cars," he said.
Chinese electric cars are very popular in Russia and data shows that a record 14,000 electric cars were sold in Russia in 2023, with China's Zeekr selling the most, accounting for 26 percent of the total, he said. The Chinese brand Voyah entered the top five in terms of electric car sales in Russia, and the demand for hybrid cars by Li Auto increased.
Although sales of electric vehicles in Russia surged last year, their share of the auto market was less than 2 percent. Market analysts believe that the Russian electric vehicle market will maintain its growth trend due to government legislative support, related subsidy measures, an increase in brand choices, and mounting charging piles.
In 2021, the Russian government adopted a strategy for the production and promotion of electric vehicles by 2030. It involves constructing a large number of charging piles and implementing a series of preferential measures, including free passage of electric vehicles on toll sections of federal highways.
"Chinese electric carmakers have considerable potential in the Russian market," and demand for Chinese electric vehicles will continue to grow in Russia, said Morzharetto. ■