A worker works at the factory of Buzuluk, a company specializes in rubber machinery production in Komarov, the Czech Republic, April 18, 2024. (Xinhua/Deng Yaomin)
PRAGUE, April 23 (Xinhua) -- Over the last decade, Czech worker Karel Moulis has been a firsthand witness to the extraordinary revitalization and success of his company Buzuluk.
Established over 500 years ago as a foundry, Buzuluk has evolved into a leading producer of rubber machinery, nestled in the picturesque western Czech town of Komarov.
Moulis said the transformation began with the partnership with Chinese company Dalian Rubber & Plastics Machinery (DXS), Buzuluk's main shareholder after acquisition in 2012.
The Chinese stakeholders invested in upgrading the infrastructure of the company, including procuring new equipment, refurbishing office facilities, implementing a modern central heating system and erecting a new photovoltaic plant to ensure sustainable electricity supply, Moulis said, who has worked in Buzuluk for 17 years.
Echoing Moulis, Buzuluk's labor union leader Milan Ernest noted the discernible enhancements across various fronts such as working conditions, facilities and salaries since the change in ownership.
Ernest spoke highly of the help the DXS has provided to Buzuluk during the COVID-19 pandemic. "They provided us with respirators and face shields for free to support us... They also helped us with some contracts so that we didn't have layoffs among our employees."
Furthermore, to guarantee the seamless operation of Buzuluk, the Chinese shareholders chose to maintain the Czech management team.
Josef Hlad, the general manager of Buzuluk, said that it's not uncommon for new shareholders to come in and overhaul everything and however, the Chinese shareholders expressed their preference to retain the local management, acknowledging their familiarity with the local environment and circumstances.
Hlad, who has made several trips to China, told Xinhua that all his counterparts at DXS view Buzuluk as a European entity. They took into thorough consideration the requirements and viewpoints of both the Chinese and Czech factions, with a distinct focus on addressing the specific concerns of Buzuluk.
Hlad anticipated continued cooperation with DXS to expand market share and boost turnover. Buzuluk's products have reached over 40 countries and regions, with an average annual turnover growth of 5-10 percent after the pandemic.
The collaboration with the DXS also positively impacted local economy and community. Hao Hailong, who has been serving as the representative of Chinese shareholders at Buzuluk since 2014, told Xinhua that along with its growth, Buzuluk has proactively fulfilled its social responsibilities, such as sponsoring local cultural events or contributing donations to schools.
Calling Buzuluk a hallmark of Komarov, Mayor Jaroslav Klekner commended the company's significant contributions to his town, citing its longstanding presence and support for cultural events.
He also expresses gratitude towards the Chinese investors for their continued investment in the company, which has led to the ongoing development and growth. "We anticipate a bright future ahead. I am optimistic about the town's development and that of Buzuluk."
Furthermore, he expresses confidence in the resilience of the Chinese economy, saying that "China is a very large market and there are many opportunities... I trust the Chinese economy as it is growing over the years." ■
A worker works at the factory of Buzuluk, a company specializes in rubber machinery production in Komarov, the Czech Republic, April 18, 2024. (Xinhua/Deng Yaomin)
This photo taken on April 18, 2024 shows the renovated office building of Buzuluk, a company specializes in rubber machinery production in Komarov, the Czech Republic. (Xinhua/Deng Yaomin)
 