Members of an orchestra perform in Geneva, Switzerland, on Sept. 9, 2024. A concert blending Chinese classical masterpieces and Western orchestral traditions was staged at the renowned Victoria Hall in Geneva Monday evening, marking the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. (Xinhua/Chen Binjie)
by Xinhua writer Zeng Yan
GENEVA, Sept. 9 (Xinhua) -- A concert blending Chinese classical masterpieces and Western orchestral traditions was staged at the renowned Victoria Hall in Geneva Monday evening, marking the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China.
The majestic venue, celebrated for its acoustics and architectural splendor, heightened the event's grandeur. Attended by diplomats, musicians and music enthusiasts from around the world, the event was a tribute to China's cultural history and its ever-evolving global connections.
The concert featured a rich selection of iconic Chinese compositions, such as the Butterfly Lovers' Violin Concerto. Performed by a talented soloist with the backing of a full symphony orchestra, the piece beautifully interpreted the legendary love story of Liang Shanbo and Zhu Yingtai, the oriental version of Romeo and Juliet.
The delicate interplay between the solo violin and the orchestra conveyed the themes of love, tragedy and eternal connection. The sweeping melodies enchanted the audience, drawing them deep into the essence of China's rich cultural heritage
The evening culminated with a powerful rendition of the Yellow River Cantata, a monumental work that has become a symbol of Chinese resilience and spirit.
With its stirring choral sections and triumphant orchestral arrangements, the performance depicted the struggles and determination of the Chinese people during one of the challenging times in the nation's history. The voices of the choir swelled in unison, embodying the spirit of unity and strength, while the orchestra's dynamic performance filled the hall with the grandeur that the piece demands.
As the final notes of the Yellow River Cantata faded into the vaulted ceilings of Victoria Hall, the audience erupted into a standing ovation.
The concert transcended mere musical performance. It was a profound tribute to China's rich past, dynamic present and promising future and it also symbolized the enduring cultural ties that continue to bind nations across the world together. ■
Members of an orchestra perform in Geneva, Switzerland, on Sept. 9, 2024. A concert blending Chinese classical masterpieces and Western orchestral traditions was staged at the renowned Victoria Hall in Geneva Monday evening, marking the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. (Xinhua/Chen Binjie)
 