LONDON, July 25 (Xinhua) -- Chinese modernization rejects short-termism and stresses sustainability, a British expert has said recently.
In an interview with Xinhua, Keith Bennett, an international relations consultant based in London, said that comprehensive and holistic are among the distinctive features of Chinese modernization. "It does not just concern itself with one or other aspect, nor does it see them in isolation from one another but rather as part of an integrated and interconnected whole."
"This reflects the fact that Chinese modernization rejects short-termism, stresses sustainability," he said.
On top of that, Chinese modernization is "scientific" and above all "people centered," Bennett said.
"The aim of Chinese-style modernization is that all people can lead a dignified and meaningful life based on common prosperity," he added.
The British expert also drew a comparison between Chinese and Western-style modernization approaches.
In his view, Western countries have seen great economic development over a long period but the gap between the rich and the poor not only persists but even gets worse. Moreover, all sorts of social problems proliferate and eventually become a drag on economic development as well.
On the other hand, Chinese modernization has taken a different path, which replaces this vicious circle with a virtuous circle and is therefore of great significance to the world.
He also noted that in China's case, development and peace are not mutually exclusive; but rather, they are complementary and interdependent.
"China long ago identified development and peace as two key issues of our times. And they are intimately connected. Without peace there can be no development," he stressed, adding that the tragic conflicts in various parts of the world illustrate this too clearly. "Likewise, successful development helps to eliminate at least one of the main root causes of conflict," he noted.
Bennett views China's foreign policy of peace as an integral aspect of China's commitment to global stability and development.
"China's foreign policy of peace is completely connected to and in harmony with its modernization drive at home as well as with its contributions to the modernization of other countries," he said.
So that is why the China-proposed initiatives including the Belt and Road Initiative, the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative, form an integrated whole, which together lay the foundations to help realize a community with a shared future for mankind, said the expert.
On China's significant role in the global economy, Bennett said, "China has been the main engine of global economic growth for decades."
China's significant contributions as "a major external investor, a major recipient of foreign direct investment, a huge market with the world's largest middle-income group, and the major trading partner of the majority of the world's nations" make it a key player in the global economy, he said.
Given the above-mentioned factors, he stressed that China's efforts in building a high-standard socialist market economy, supporting all-round innovation, and persisting in opening up can have far-reaching effects, which will "help bring stability to the global economy and generate opportunities for businesses and economies worldwide, while providing a valuable point of reference for other countries that wish to develop their economies and realize modernization." ■