PARIS, June 21 (Xinhua) -- Some 300 representatives of French and Chinese companies on Friday attended a roadshow of the upcoming China International Supply Chain Expo (CISCE) in Paris.
Many French entrepreneurs at the roadshow said they expect to deepen cooperation with their Chinese partners, particularly in emerging technologies.
Caroline Penard, director of the France-China International Chamber of Commerce, which represents more than 2,100 French companies implanted in China, invited her compatriots to take full advantage of the expo to expand cooperation, particularly in innovative technologies, in China.
"More than ever, it is crucial to promote economic and commercial exchanges based on mutual trust and innovation. The supply chain exhibition is a key step in this direction," she said.
Citing surveys carried out by her organization, Penard noted that 60 percent of French companies were confident that their respective sectors would grow in China over the next three years while 62 percent expected their profits to increase in 2024, compared to the year prior.
Addressing the roadshow, former French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin noted that France and China have had close exchanges and cooperation since the establishment of diplomatic relations 60 years ago. There are many French companies in China, setting numerous examples of bilateral economic and commercial cooperation.
Though there are differences between French and Chinese cultures, the two countries still can greatly contribute to the development of the global economy by constantly improving mutual understanding and trust, he stressed.
"The interests of China and France are closely linked and their benefits complement each other. The successes of supply chain partnerships, such as the joint operation of the Kribi deepwater port in Cameroon by Chinese and French companies, or the jointly developed electric vehicle and electric battery products that have conquered global markets, are shining examples," said Ren Hongbin, chairman of the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT), which is the organizer of the annual supply chain gala.
The CISCE is the world's first national-scale exhibition dedicated to supply chains. The second edition scheduled on Nov. 26-30 in Beijing will focus on advanced manufacturing, clean energy, smart vehicles, digital technology, the health industry and green agriculture. ■