by Xinhua writer Xiong Sihao
ANKARA, Dec. 12 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese language department at Türkiye's Erciyes University serves as "a cultural bridge" for enhancing understanding between Türkiye and China, a Turkish educator has said.
"The Chinese Language and Literature Department at our university is not just an academic program. It is a cultural bridge, a tool for understanding," Cevdet Kirpik, vice rector of Erciyes University, said in a recent interview with Xinhua.
Erciyes University, named after Mount Erciyes located 15 km southwest of the campus, is one of the first ten universities in Türkiye to be designated as a research university.
In 1998, the university established a department of Chinese language and literature, with an aim to cultivate graduates who would help enhance the understanding between Chinese and Turkish communities.
After more than two decades, Erciyes University has become a central hub for Chinese language education in Türkiye, boasting over 200 undergraduate students. Its alumni are now making their mark in numerous industries throughout Türkiye.
"We placed significant importance on the presence of the Chinese Language and Literature Department at our university. Its existence fostered a strong bond between two nations, two cultures, and two peoples," he said.
"Languages act as bridges, connecting people and cultures. The inclusion of Chinese in our curriculum serves as a gateway to the Chinese culture, strengthening the ties between our countries," Kirpik stressed.
According to Kirpik, the benefits of learning Chinese for Turkish students are multifaceted.
"On a personal level, it enriches one's knowledge and broadens horizons. Professionally, as the trade potential between Türkiye and China continues to grow, proficiency in Chinese enhances the employability of our graduates," he pointed out.
On the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), the Turkish educator said, the trade network "facilitated not only commerce but also the exchange of culture, art and literature."
"The BRI has the potential to enhance the infrastructure of participating countries and foster cultural exchanges," he said. "Over time, we expect this initiative to serve as a boon for all parties involved."
Referring to Türkiye and China as homes to ancient civilizations with rich cultural traditions, Kirpik believes that both countries can draw the lessons and values from these civilizations to address contemporary global challenges.
"Türkiye has a deep-rooted tradition of tolerance and justice inherited from the Ottoman era. Similarly, Chinese philosophers like Confucius have long advocated for peace, prosperity and unity. Both countries can draw on their rich histories to contribute to global peace and stability," he said.
"Addressing global tensions requires prioritizing human prosperity, and Türkiye and China are well-positioned to make meaningful contributions to this goal," Kirpik added. ■