ZAGREB, Aug. 6 (Xinhua) -- Since Chinese police joined Croatia's joint patrol project in 2018, their presence at main tourist sites has become a common summer sight for locals and international visitors. The joint patrol is reported to have brought a sense of safety for Chinese tourists and those from other countries.
Zagreb resident Ruza Spicek said it is pleasant to see the joint patrol of Chinese and Croatian police officers in the Croatian capital. "I often see Chinese police officers conducting joint patrols with our police. They are well-mannered and it is very nice to see them," Spicek told Xinhua.
She added that she feels reassured knowing that police officers from Croatia and China provide enhanced security and protection for tourists and locals.
Matija Nikic, another Zagreb resident, applauded the initiative and the gains through cultural exchange: "People from different cultures learn from each other and share experiences."
For Chinese tourists, encountering police officers from their home country feels like meeting acquaintances and relatives in a foreign land, and tourists from other countries appreciate the reassurance of enhanced protection.
"Generally, the public is very receptive to seeing police officers. They feel at ease, safer, and more comfortable, as there is someone to help them if in need," said Marvin McClure, who came from Northern Ireland, Britain. He described the joint patrol as "a very forward-thinking strategic perspective."
The Chinese-Croatian joint patrol has contributed to Croatia's Safe Tourist Destination project, launched to make the country a safe tourist destination. This project invites police officers from other countries to patrol major tourist areas along with Croatian police officers. China joined the initiative in 2018.
On July 22, eight Chinese officers began a one-month joint patrol mission in Zagreb, Dubrovnik, Zadar, and Plitvice Lakes National Park. They aim to assist Chinese tourists and prevent crimes while enhancing police cooperation between the two countries.
Mislav Svigir, a Croatian police officer, praised the cooperation with his Chinese colleagues.
"We have a phenomenal experience with Chinese colleagues. They are professional colleagues, and we have developed friendships," Svigir said, adding that he remains in touch with the Chinese police officers even after they finished the joint patrol and returned to China.
According to Vlatka Vulic Petkovic, director of the International Cooperation Department of the Croatian Police, the joint police patrols between China and Croatia have deepened bilateral law enforcement cooperation and contributed significantly to the Safe Tourist Destination project. ■