MANCHESTER, Britain, June 8 (Xinhua) -- Although it's still two days before this year's Dragon Boat Festival, the vibrant sounds of cheers and drumbeats have already filled the air at Salford Quays in Greater Manchester on Saturday, celebrating this traditional Chinese holiday.
The dragon boat race commenced with a thrilling head-to-head battle among the teams from Manchester United Foundation and City in the Community, the charitable arms of the two famous local football clubs, as well as Salford Red Devils, bringing the "Manchester derby" and a "football vs. rugby showdown" to the water.
"It's a great celebration of the culture. It's fantastic that everybody's taking such an interest in it, getting involved and celebrating it all together," Nathan McAvoy, one of the paddlers with Salford Red Devils team, told Xinhua after the race. This marked the first time the former professional rugby player tried the dragon boat race.
McAvoy said shoulder strength, stamina and teamwork are crucial in the race. He noticed many similarities between dragonboat paddling and rugby, finding it "interesting to see" how he could apply his "old skills" into this new practice.
As an event that has gained popularity in the country and across Europe, this year's UK Chinese Dragon Boat Festival spans two days with an amateur race on the first day and a contest of professional teams on Sunday.
Originating in China thousands of years ago, the dragon boat race is one of many traditions in celebration of the Dragon Boat Festival, which commemorates the Chinese patriotic poet Qu Yuan (about 340-278 BC) on the fifth day of the fifth lunar month of the Chinese calendar.
Dragon boats are typically decorated with Chinese dragon heads at the front of the boats and tails at the back. Paddlers sit in pairs on a boat, along with a steersperson navigating the boat near the dragon tail and a drummer beating the rhythm against the head.
"Events like this are a perfect opportunity for people from all backgrounds to share, to celebrate in each other's traditions, our heritage, and ultimately, our shared humanity," said Paul Dennett, Salford's mayor. He added that the UK Chinese Dragon Boat Festival demonstrates the city's and city region's "non-negotiable commitment to diversity, equality, international cooperation, friendship, and inclusion."
Besides the race, the event also featured a series of performances, including dragon dance, lion dance and waist drum dance, many of which were presented jointly by Chinese and British performers.
"Chinese Dragon Boat Festival has made contribution to boosting friendship, enhancing exchanges and cooperation, promoting mutual understanding, deepening people-to-people friendships, and stable and long-term development of China-UK relations," Tang Rui, consul general of China's Consulate-General in Manchester, said, citing a congratulatory letter by Chinese Ambassador to the UK Zheng Zeguang.
The event was organized by the Xinhua Chinese Association in partnership with Salford City Council and the British Dragon Boat Racing Association. ■