Maltese Prime Minister Robert Abela (2nd R), chairman of Malta Fish Farming (MFF) Ltd. Salvu Ellul (1st R) and Peng Yijun (2nd L), charge d'affaires of the Chinese Embassy in Malta, cut the ribbon during a ceremony for the inauguration of the first bluefin tuna joint venture platform between China and Malta in Marsa, Malta, Oct. 4, 2024. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua)
VALLETTA, Oct. 5 (Xinhua) -- Maltese Prime Minister Abela said on Friday evening that the partnership between Malta and China has grown stronger over the years and more cooperation is expected.
Abela made the remarks during a ceremony for the inauguration of the first bluefin tuna joint venture platform between China and Malta held in Marsa, eastern Malta.
Highlighting the solid economic ties between Malta and China, he said "Over the past five decades, our partnership has grown stronger through mutual benefit and win-win cooperation."
The joint venture was established in southern China's Hainan Province in June this year by Malta Fish Farming (MFF) Ltd. and Shandong Far-sea Development Ltd., a subsidiary of Shandong Marine Group. This cooperation covers the whole industrial chain such as bluefin tuna trade, processing, and transportation.
Abela said that the initiative marks a "significant milestone" in the longstanding relationship between Malta and China and the collaboration is "another promising chapter" in bilateral trade relations.
The new cooperation platform "symbolizes not just economic cooperation, but the enduring strength of the ties between our two nations," he noted. "Together, we look forward to a future filled with opportunity, prosperity, and further cooperation."
Peng Yijun, charge d'affaires of the Chinese Embassy in Malta, said that the economic and trade cooperation is always an important part of China-Malta relationship, and one of the key areas with the greatest potential for further development.
Over the past 52 years of diplomatic relations, the traditional friendship between China and Malta has withstood the test of time, he said, adding "Our economic and trade ties are rooted in mutual benefit and win-win cooperation, which has brought tangible benefits to our two peoples."
Looking into the future, China is willing to work with all sectors of the Maltese side to promote in-depth exchanges in various fields, Peng noted.
Salvu Ellul, chairman of MFF, said the joint venture is a result of bilateral consensus on developing the blue economy, especially the close exchanges and communication between the two governments over the years.
He said that MFF will bring the highest quality bluefin tuna products to the Chinese consumers' table. ■
Salvu Ellul, chairman of Malta Fish Farming (MFF) Ltd., speaks during a ceremony for the inauguration of the first bluefin tuna joint venture platform between China and Malta in Marsa, Malta, Oct. 4, 2024. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua)
Maltese Prime Minister Robert Abela speaks during a ceremony for the inauguration of the first bluefin tuna joint venture platform between China and Malta in Marsa, Malta, Oct. 4, 2024. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua)