Tourists visit the Marco Polo Center in Korcula, Croatia on Aug. 29, 2024. (Xinhua/Li Xuejun)
KORCULA, Croatia, Aug. 30 (Xinhua) -- To mark the 700th anniversary this year of the death of the famous 13th-century explorer Marco Polo, a museum named after the explorer on the Croatian island of Korcula has been hosting events aimed at building bridges between East and West - especially China and Croatia.
The curator of the Marco Polo Center on Korcula, Vicko Marelic, told Xinhua in an interview on Thursday that visitors to the center can learn about the legendary European traveler's life in China as well as his contribution to bringing together the East and the West.
They will be introduced to the historical context that led to Marco Polo's travels, as well as his route, the difficulties he encountered along the way, and his discoveries.
"I hope that it will inspire young people from Korcula and the rest of Croatia to develop an interest in China, learn Chinese, and travel there, following the legacy of Marco Polo," Marelic said.
According to Croatian scholars, Marco Polo was born around 1254 to a family of merchants and shipbuilders on Korcula, which was once part of the Venetian Empire. His family later moved to Venice.
In his twenties, Marco Polo traveled along the ancient Silk Road to reach China and stayed there for 17 years in the 13th century. His experiences were recorded in the book "The Travels of Marco Polo," which inspired many Westerners to explore the East.
The Marco Polo Center was founded on July 28 last year after decades of preparation, sponsored by the Korcula municipal government with support from the Croatian Ministry of Culture and the European Union.
Marelic said the legacy of Marco Polo could be used to promote not just the island but the whole country. According to the curator, Chinese Ambassador to Croatia Qi Qianjin is among the over 20,000 visitors who have visited the center. A group of Chinese students have also made a video about the life and legacy of Marco Polo in Korcula.
"Chinese visitors are regulars here as it is an unmissable part of the Marco Polo trail, since the Adriatic was the last part of the ancient Silk Road," he said.
The center has received a gift of porcelain named after Marco Polo from the Dehua Country in China's southern Guangdong Province, which will be exhibited soon.
This year, the center has held various activities to mark the 700th anniversary of Marco Polo's death, including lectures, seminars, and a book tour. In addition, it also took part in the Dragon Boat race in Zagreb with a team named after Marco Polo.
Marelic's Marco Polo team won first place in the annual boat race in June for the second consecutive year. "I hope someday the Marco Polo Team can go to China to compete in the Dragon Boat race there," he said.
To commemorate Marco Polo's death, Marelic is also organizing a concert in Korcula. Furthermore, he plans to organize a summer school for young Europeans and Chinese to promote mutual understanding.
"I would like more Europeans to visit China and learn Chinese, and more Chinese to learn one of the European languages. I hope that Croatia can use its heritage of Marco Polo in Korcula as a platform for building a stronger friendship with China," he said. ■
Vicko Marelic (L), curator of the Marco Polo Center, tells visitors stories about Marco Polo, in Korcula, Croatia on Aug. 29, 2024. (Xinhua/Li Xuejun)