ROME, July 21 (Xinhua) -- The continued cooperation between Italy and China to protect and promote world cultural heritages enhances mutual understanding and fosters learning between civilizations, several Italian professionals told Xinhua in recent interviews.
Italy and China currently hold the largest number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Heleni Porfyriou, a former senior researcher at the Institute for Heritage Science of the Italian National Research Council, said that the significant number of heritage sites in both countries lays the foundation for collaboration, with many sites sharing similar historical significance, architectural styles, or cultural landscapes.
"When world heritage sites with similar characteristics are brought together, it promotes a deeper understanding of each other's history and culture," Porfyriou said. "Through tourism and digital platforms, audiences can learn about the wisdom of different parts of the world in the same historical periods, facilitating civilizational exchanges across continents."
Roberto Ciarla, an archaeologist with the International Association for Mediterranean and Oriental Studies in Italy, said that cooperation between Chinese and Italian World Heritage Sites not only benefits global visitors by showcasing ancient civilizations but also provides valuable learning experiences for management and research personnel.
Ciarla expects that both countries will engage in regular, focused exchanges on specific themes related to World Heritage Sites conservation and promotion. "Learning from each other's ideas and experiences is crucial for the better preservation of cultural heritages," said Ciarla.
At the 2024 World Heritage Convention, Beijing's Central Axis in China and Italy's Roman Appian Road are both on the review list. Porfyriou, who has participated in cooperative research projects on the Roman Appian Road and China's Grand Canal, said that Italy has gained valuable insights from China's Grand Canal heritage application process.
China has also published a book on Italian cultural heritage legislation and protection. "This is a positive example of Sino-Italian heritage cooperation, where both countries benefit by learning and understanding each other's policies and practices in relevant fields," said Porfyriou.
Some renowned World Heritage Sites in China face pressures of overdevelopment. Ciarla suggested shifting attention from the most popular sites to other areas. Collaborating with countries like Italy could help present the diversity of Chinese civilization to the world.
Many lesser-known heritage sites in China, such as Tulou in Fujian, are still not well known worldwide, according to Porfyriou. "We look forward to more cooperation between China and Italy in heritage sites, especially allowing more lesser-known places representing Chinese culture to be supported and appreciated," she said. ■