by Xinhua Writer Yuan Rui
BEIJING, Dec. 23 (Xinhua) -- Serbia and China are not only partners but also friends who trust each other, Serbian Foreign Minister Marko Djuric stated in a written interview with Xinhua.
Djuric paid an official visit to China from Dec. 19 to 21 at the invitation of Wang Yi, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and minister of foreign affairs.
Reflecting on Chinese President Xi Jinping's state visit to Serbia in May this year, Djuric said that the trip injected new momentum into bilateral ties. The two leaders announced the establishment of the China-Serbia community with a shared future in the new era, marking a historic milestone in their relationship.
"Serbia and China are firmly bound by mutual support and understanding for key state and national interests," said Djuric. He also expressed his gratitude to China for supporting Serbia's efforts to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity in regard to the Kosovo and Metohija issue.
"We will likewise continue to support our Chinese friends, not only when it comes to the one-China principle, but also in all initiatives that can be beneficial for the peaceful and prosperous future of humanity," he added.
Noting that economic collaboration between Serbia and China has seen record-breaking achievements, with both countries benefiting significantly, Djuric said that the Serbia-China Free Trade Agreement, which officially came into effect in July, "will lead to further growth in our trade and greater balance."
Recent achievements of bilateral cooperation include a China-invested tire factory in Serbia that began mass production in September, joint police patrols in Hainan, and the successful opening of a new bypass road around the municipality of Gornji Milanovac in October, which was constructed by a Chinese company.
Djuric said economic cooperation between the two countries covers many fields such as roads, railways and energy, among others. In particular, many Chinese enterprises have worked with Serbia on tangible joint projects that have enriched bilateral cooperation.
Looking ahead, Djuric expressed optimism about the future cooperation. He said that Serbia actively participates in the China-CEEC (Central and Eastern European Countries) cooperation and the Belt and Road Initiative.
At the same time, Serbia is committed to becoming a leader in innovative technologies in the region and looks forward to deepening cooperation with China in emerging fields such as artificial intelligence, biotechnology and digital transformation, he said.
"We want to implement a project of great importance for Serbia, the construction of the Serbia-China Industrial Park Mihajlo Pupin, which would also include a high-tech park," he added.
Cultural and people-to-people exchanges between China and Serbia have flourished, with Djuric highlighting that in the first 10 months of this year, the number of Chinese tourists to Serbia increased by over 70 percent compared to last year. Increased flight connections between the two nations have facilitated not only travel but also educational and technological exchanges.
"There is a great interest in China among the young people in Serbia, both for Chinese culture and for experiences in the transformation of society and high-tech development that is unparalleled in the modern world," he said.
The Third Plenary Session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, held in July, detailed a systematic plan to further deepen reform comprehensively to advance Chinese modernization, and put forward more than 300 important reform measures. Djuric said the rest of the world can learn from this and promote sustainable development and social progress in line with their own conditions.
"Serbia is very glad to learn from the experiences of our Chinese friends and is creating a knowledge-based economy, as well as an environment for the development of high-tech export-oriented industry." ■