ZAGREB, Oct. 1 (Xinhua) -- Ante Simonic, former Croatian deputy prime minister and former Croatian ambassador to China, has hailed China's "unprecedented" achievements over the 75 years since the founding of the People's Republic of China (PRC).
In a written interview with Xinhua on the eve of PRC's 75th founding anniversary, Simonic emphasized China's remarkable rise that began about 40 years ago, attributing the achievements to "hard work, good organization, and wise leadership."
Simonic is the founder and long-term president of the Croatian-Chinese Friendship Association in Rijeka, Croatia's third-largest city. He was awarded the Friendship Award by the Chinese government in 2017, in recognition of his efforts in promoting friendly exchanges, understanding and friendship between the peoples of Croatia and China.
Simonic commended China for its world-leading position in many sectors, including electric vehicle manufacturing, shipbuilding, modern railway networks, and space exploration. He said China's modernization drive has outlined a blueprint for achieving national rejuvenation.
He views China as playing an indispensable role in addressing globally important issues such as security, green energy, oil prices, the fight against terrorism, and climate change.
Regarding the concept of building a community with a shared future for mankind, he stated that it is rooted in China's long history and civilization, reflecting Chinese wisdom and offering solutions to promote the creation of a better and fairer world.
The concept is "extremely significant" as it focuses on multilateralism, fair governance, global cooperation and development, which have been widely recognized by the international community, he added.
According to Simonic, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has been a concrete practice of the concept of building a community with a shared future for mankind.
He cited the Peljesac Bridge and the Senj Wind Farm Project, two BRI projects undertaken by Chinese companies in Croatia, as examples of successful and mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries.
"The Peljesac Bridge is an extremely successful project, which has grown into the most visible symbol of the connection between Croatia and China," Simonic said.
He said the Peljesac Bridge has not only greatly promoted the development of tourism, transportation and logistics industries in southern Croatia, but also connects Croatia's mainland with the Peljesac Peninsula on the country's southern Adriatic coast for the first time.
Meanwhile, the Senj Wind Farm Project, "in addition to its enormous economic, technological and financial significance, also points to the successful cooperation between China and Croatia in the extremely topical area of environmental protection and green energy," Simonic said.
China and Croatia established diplomatic relations in 1992. In 2005, the two countries established a comprehensive cooperative partnership. ■