LONDON, Oct. 25 (Xinhua) -- A forum centered on dialogue and collaboration between the Chinese and British screen industries was held in London on Friday, drawing over 200 professionals and industry insiders from both countries.
The Shanghai-London Screen Industry Forum (SLSIF) 2024 highlighted outstanding Chinese and British film and television projects, featuring speeches, panel discussions, trailer screenings, and the launch of new collaborative projects between China and the United Kingdom (UK).
Adrian Wootton, Chief Executive of Film London, said that the forum would create valuable opportunities for the Chinese and British screen industries to deepen their understanding of each other's strengths and explore potential collaborations.
"New business relationships are crucial for building connections, developing ideas, enhancing mutual understanding, and potentially laying the groundwork for real co-production opportunities between the UK and China, London and Shanghai," Wootton said.
During the panel discussions, participants shared insights on the opportunities and challenges in China-UK screen industry cooperation, as well as the global dissemination of Chinese content.
"In today's globalized world, cultural exchanges and cooperation are essential for world peace and development," said Luo Yi, Deputy Director-General at the Shanghai Municipal Administration of Culture and Tourism. He emphasized that high-quality audiovisual productions act as "the bridge and bond linking different peoples."
The event included the showcase of 35 Chinese productions spanning genres such as animation, documentaries, period dramas, and contemporary urban series. The forum also celebrated the release of "Asia", a seven-episode natural history documentary series produced by BBC Studios.
"With the creative industries at the heart of the industrial strategy, and with forums like this, I think we can expect great things between China's collaboration in the future," said Rupert Daniels, Director of Creative, Consumer, Sports, and Education at the UK Department for Business and Trade. He added that such partnerships not only enhance commercial prospects but also strengthen cultural capacity and connections.
Launched in 2023, SLSIF aims to enhance understanding and foster dialogue between the Chinese and British screen industries, promoting the successful realization of co-production projects. ■