Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban meets with Chinese State Councilor and Minister of Public Security Wang Xiaohong (L) in Budapest, Hungary, Feb. 16, 2024. (Xinhua)
BUDAPEST, Feb. 17 (Xinhua) -- Hungary is ready to deepen friendship with China, said Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban when he met with Chinese State Councilor and Minister of Public Security Wang Xiaohong here on Friday.
During their meeting, Orban said Hungary and China have always respected each other, treated each other as equals, and supported each other regarding core interests and major concerns.
Under the new situation, Hungary is willing to deepen traditional friendship with China, strengthen practical cooperation, and further boost the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries, he added.
Wang said China and Hungary enjoy traditional friendship, and are good friends and partners who can stand the tests.
Under the strategic guidance of the leaders of the two countries, the development of China-Hungary relations and bilateral cooperation in various fields have accelerated and entered a fast track, Wang said, adding that mutually beneficial cooperation has yielded fruitful results, setting an example of building a new type of international relations.
China is willing to take the opportunity of the 75th anniversary of the establishment of bilateral diplomatic ties to work with Hungary to implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, maintain high-level exchanges, deepen political mutual trust, strengthen people-to-people exchanges, expand cooperation in various fields, strengthen communication and coordination in international and regional affairs, and push forward the constant development of China-Hungary comprehensive strategic partnership, Wang said.
Wang also said that he hopes the two countries will deepen cooperation in areas including counter-terrorism, combating transnational crimes, security and law enforcement capacity building under the Belt and Road Initiative, to make law enforcement and security cooperation a new highlight of bilateral relations.
During his stay in Hungary, Wang also met with Hungarian Minister of Interior Sandor Pinter and signed documents on law enforcement and security cooperation. ■