FAO Director-General Qu Dongyu speaks at an event to celebrate the Chinese Lunar New Year at the headquarters of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in Rome, Italy, on Feb. 2, 2024. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) held a high-level event at its headquarters here on Friday to mark the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year. (Xinhua/Li Jing)
ROME, Feb. 2 (Xinhua) -- The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) held a high-level event at its headquarters here on Friday to mark the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year.
Gathering hundreds of representatives from Rome-based diplomatic corps, Italian authorities and FAO, the event was the first such celebration of the traditional Chinese festival within the organization.
FAO Director-General Qu Dongyu highlighted the importance of recognizing and appreciating diversity in his speech.
The upcoming Year of the Dragon is of special significance for the Chinese and in the East Asian culture, he said. "As a mystical creature, the dragon symbolizes strength, wisdom and good fortune in the Chinese culture."
Stressing the importance of cooperation and solidarity in the face of global challenges in uncertain times, Qu called for collaboration without boundaries and keeping food and agriculture among the top issues of the international agenda.
FAO's chief economist Maximo Torero told Xinhua that the organization will keep working with China and other countries as part of the UN system.
Highlights of the event included performances of traditional Chinese Tai Chi, tea-serving rituals and paper-cutting art.
The UN General Assembly adopted a resolution in December to list the Lunar New Year, or Spring Festival, as a UN floating holiday in its calendar of conferences and meetings starting from this year.
According to the Chinese lunar calendar, this Year of the Dragon starts on Feb. 10. ■
 
People attend an event to celebrate the Chinese Lunar New Year at the headquarters of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in Rome, Italy, on Feb. 2, 2024. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) held a high-level event at its headquarters here on Friday to mark the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year. (Xinhua/Li Jing)
Participants watch a Taichi performance during an event to celebrate the Chinese Lunar New Year at the headquarters of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in Rome, Italy, on Feb. 2, 2024. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) held a high-level event at its headquarters here on Friday to mark the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year. (Xinhua/Li Jing)
Participants taste Chinese tea during an event to celebrate the Chinese Lunar New Year at the headquarters of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in Rome, Italy, on Feb. 2, 2024. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) held a high-level event at its headquarters here on Friday to mark the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year. (Xinhua/Li Jing)
Participants show paper cutting works during an event to celebrate the Chinese Lunar New Year at the headquarters of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in Rome, Italy, on Feb. 2, 2024. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) held a high-level event at its headquarters here on Friday to mark the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year. (Xinhua/Li Jing)
Participants learn to make paper cutting works during an event to celebrate the Chinese Lunar New Year at the headquarters of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in Rome, Italy, on Feb. 2, 2024. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) held a high-level event at its headquarters here on Friday to mark the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year. (Xinhua/Li Jing)