Guests attend the launch ceremony of Xi Jinping on Respecting and Protecting Human Rights (French-Chinese version) in Paris, France, Feb. 29, 2024. Dozens of French experts praised the important contribution of Chinese wisdom to global human rights governance at a thematic seminar here Thursday, in parallel with the launch of Xi Jinping on Respecting and Protecting Human Rights (French-Chinese version). (Xinhua/Zhang Baihui)
PARIS, March 1 (Xinhua) -- Dozens of French experts praised the important contribution of Chinese wisdom to global human rights governance at a thematic seminar here Thursday, in parallel with the launch of Xi Jinping on Respecting and Protecting Human Rights (French-Chinese version).
The Chinese vision of human rights is centered on the people, Chen Dong, charge d'affaires of the Chinese embassy in France, said in his speech, "the people's aspiration for a better life is our goal."
Chen said the book describes the Communist Party of China's people-centered governance philosophy in the new era, systematically summarizes China's policy on global human rights governance, and provides an authoritative textbook for domestic and foreign readers to understand China's perspective on human rights.
In this increasingly complex world that is in full recomposition, the Western model is in full shift, said Jean-Christophe Bas, director of the European center for studies on the community with a shared future for humanity.
He stressed that people are witnessing a movement towards the de-Westernization of the world, or at least a shift away from monopoly towards a multipolar world. He emphasized that diversity, a central theme in the Chinese vision of human rights, is fundamental to global peace.
"China respects and guarantees human rights by adapting to its own conditions, prioritizing the rights of its people above all," said Herve Azoulay, professor at the Silk Road Business School.
For Karim Medjad, professor at the National Conservatory of Arts and Crafts, the eradication of extreme poverty in China is exemplary for the development of human rights in the world. "It is extraordinary. Nobody disputes it. This is a major step forward."
In China, "actions speak louder than words," said Joseph Makutu, director general of the Franco-Chinese University preparatory school. He welcomed the fact that the development of human rights in China directly benefits the well-being of the people, including education, employment and health.
President of Saphir Eurasia Promotion agency Jean Pegouret said that China, with "its breadth and diversity," always strives to strengthen "economic, political, social and cultural, environmental rights and the full development of each person in a coordinated manner."
Robert Prosperini, a former official of the French Ministry of Education, said that the Chinese vision of human rights is a fundamental approach built on its history and philosophy. "There is not only one way to approach human rights, there are several," which is "fundamental for the future of humanity." ■
Herve Azoulay, professor at the Silk Road Business School, speaks at the launch ceremony of Xi Jinping on Respecting and Protecting Human Rights (French-Chinese version) in Paris, France, Feb. 29, 2024. Dozens of French experts praised the important contribution of Chinese wisdom to global human rights governance at a thematic seminar here Thursday, in parallel with the launch of Xi Jinping on Respecting and Protecting Human Rights (French-Chinese version). (Xinhua/Zhang Baihui)
The launch ceremony of Xi Jinping on Respecting and Protecting Human Rights (French-Chinese version) is held in Paris, France, Feb. 29, 2024. Dozens of French experts praised the important contribution of Chinese wisdom to global human rights governance at a thematic seminar here Thursday, in parallel with the launch of Xi Jinping on Respecting and Protecting Human Rights (French-Chinese version). (Xinhua/Zhang Baihui)
President of Saphir Eurasia Promotion agency Jean Pegouret speaks at the launch ceremony of Xi Jinping on Respecting and Protecting Human Rights (French-Chinese version) in Paris, France, Feb. 29, 2024. Dozens of French experts praised the important contribution of Chinese wisdom to global human rights governance at a thematic seminar here Thursday, in parallel with the launch of Xi Jinping on Respecting and Protecting Human Rights (French-Chinese version). (Xinhua/Zhang Baihui)