A student participates in a Chinese language competition in Kiev, Ukraine, April 24, 2024. The Confucius Institute of the Kiev National Linguistic University (KNLU) hosted a Chinese language competition for Ukrainian students for the first time in four years.
The contest held on Wednesday attracted 23 Chinese learners from the Ukrainian capital and the eastern city of Kharkiv. (Photo by Roman Petushkov/Xinhua)
KIEV, April 25 (Xinhua) -- The Confucius Institute of the Kiev National Linguistic University (KNLU) hosted a Chinese language competition for Ukrainian students for the first time in four years.
The contest held on Wednesday attracted 23 Chinese learners from the Ukrainian capital and the eastern city of Kharkiv.
"This event is an opportunity for participants from different parts of the country to test themselves and showcase their love for the Chinese language and culture, get to know each other, and build contacts," Yuliia Liubymova, director of the Confucius Institute of the KNLU, told Xinhua.
In recent years, Chinese language competitions in Ukraine have been suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the tough security situation, Liubymova said.
This year's competition was to celebrate the United Nations Chinese Language Day, which falls on the Grain Rain day of the Chinese lunar calendar, she added.
During the event, the competitors demonstrated their knowledge of the Chinese language, culture, history and economy in several rounds of contest.
Sachuk Bogdan, a student of the Taras Shevchenko National University, clinched the victory in the contest for intermediate-level students, while Alina Pavlik, a student of the KNLU, won the competition for beginners. ■
A student participates in a Chinese language competition in Kiev, Ukraine, April 24, 2024. The Confucius Institute of the Kiev National Linguistic University (KNLU) hosted a Chinese language competition for Ukrainian students for the first time in four years.
The contest held on Wednesday attracted 23 Chinese learners from the Ukrainian capital and the eastern city of Kharkiv. (Photo by Roman Petushkov/Xinhua)