Residents clean their belongings after flood in Utiel, Spain, Nov. 2, 2024. Torrential rains over recent days have triggered Spain's worst flooding in decades. The death toll from the flooding had risen to 211 as of Saturday morning, according to the government. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
MADRID, Nov. 3 (Xinhua) -- Floods in southern and eastern Spain have killed two Chinese citizens and left two others missing, the Chinese embassy in Spain confirmed Saturday.
Heavy rainfalls in southern and eastern Spain triggered the deadliest flash floods in the country's modern history, which have killed at least 211 people. ■
This photo taken on Nov. 2, 2024 shows a view of the flood-affected area in Utiel, Spain. Torrential rains over recent days have triggered Spain's worst flooding in decades. The death toll from the flooding had risen to 211 as of Saturday morning, according to the government. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
People clear a road after flood in Utiel, Spain, Nov. 2, 2024. Torrential rains over recent days have triggered Spain's worst flooding in decades. The death toll from the flooding had risen to 211 as of Saturday morning, according to the government. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
A high-heeled shoe is pictured in mud after flood in Utiel, Spain, Nov. 2, 2024. Torrential rains over recent days have triggered Spain's worst flooding in decades. The death toll from the flooding had risen to 211 as of Saturday morning, according to the government. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
A resident clears his residence after flood in Utiel, Spain, Nov. 2, 2024. Torrential rains over recent days have triggered Spain's worst flooding in decades. The death toll from the flooding had risen to 211 as of Saturday morning, according to the government. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
An aerial drone photo taken on Nov. 2, 2024 shows a view of the flood-affected area in Utiel, Spain. Torrential rains over recent days have triggered Spain's worst flooding in decades. The death toll from the flooding had risen to 211 as of Saturday morning, according to the government. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
An aerial drone photo taken on Nov. 2, 2024 shows a view of the flood-affected area in Utiel, Spain. Torrential rains over recent days have triggered Spain's worst flooding in decades. The death toll from the flooding had risen to 211 as of Saturday morning, according to the government. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
People clean wine bottles after flood in Utiel, Spain, Nov. 2, 2024. Torrential rains over recent days have triggered Spain's worst flooding in decades. The death toll from the flooding had risen to 211 as of Saturday morning, according to the government. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
An aerial drone photo taken on Nov. 2, 2024 shows cars damaged in flood in Utiel, Spain. Torrential rains over recent days have triggered Spain's worst flooding in decades. The death toll from the flooding had risen to 211 as of Saturday morning, according to the government. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
A resident clears a road after flood in Utiel, Spain, Nov. 2, 2024. Torrential rains over recent days have triggered Spain's worst flooding in decades. The death toll from the flooding had risen to 211 as of Saturday morning, according to the government. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)