The BRICS Expert Forum is held in St. Petersburg, Russia, on June 6, 2024. The forum was co-hosted by Xinhua News Agency and Rossiya Segodnya. (Xinhua/Cao Yang)
ST. PETERSBURG, June 6 (Xinhua) -- BRICS countries have made significant achievements in promoting global economic growth, improving global governance, and enhancing multilateral cooperation, participants at the BRICS Expert Forum said here Thursday.
Lyu Yansong, editor-in-chief of Xinhua News Agency, said that as the world is undergoing unprecedented changes, BRICS countries have been strengthening cooperation in various fields, promoting high-quality partnerships, and jointly exploring paths to modernization.
Lyu, also deputy director of the Academic Committee of New China Research, noted that these efforts are crucial for humanity to collectively address challenges and create a brighter future.
As China's state news agency and a high-end think tank in the form of a media outlet, Xinhua is committed to in-depth research on the successful practices of the BRICS cooperation mechanism, deeply interpreting its contemporary value and global significance, Lyu said.
He added that the agency is willing to further strengthen research and promotion of the BRICS cooperation mechanism with its partners.
Alexander Zhukov, first deputy chairman of the Russian State Duma, said BRICS countries respect sovereign equality and the right to choose development paths independently. They take into account mutual interests, adhere to principles of openness and consensus, and strive to establish a multipolar world order and a fair global financial and trade system, collectively addressing the most pressing issues of the day.
The mechanism has become a model for inter-state cooperation, he noted, adding that Russia, as the rotating chair of BRICS this year, will host a series of events focusing on topics including politics, security, economy, finance, and education and culture.
Philani Mthembu, executive director at the Institute for Global Dialogue based in South Africa, said that BRICS countries advocate and practice genuine multilateralism and are dedicated to promoting multipolarity and democratizing international relations.
BRICS aims to build a more just and reasonable international order, continuously contributing to global peace, stability, and prosperity, he added.
Jose Pio Borges de Castro Filho, chairman of the Board of Trustees at the Brazilian Center for International Relations, said that BRICS is a crucial force in shaping a new world order, as the mechanism showcases its flexibility and inclusiveness, respecting the cultural, economic, and religious differences of its members while fostering mutually beneficial cooperation.
He emphasized the need for member states to strengthen cooperation in reducing carbon emissions, poverty alleviation, energy transition, and digital transformation.
Dmitry Kiselev, general director of Rossiya Segodnya media group, said that new development centers are emerging in today's world, with BRICS being one of the most important forces.
Under the BRICS framework, cooperation in economic, trade, cultural, and other fields has progressed smoothly, effectively safeguarding the common interests of emerging and developing countries, Kiselev noted.
The BRICS Expert Forum was held within the framework of the 2024 St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, and co-hosted by Xinhua News Agency and Rossiya Segodnya. Government officials from BRICS countries, heads of major international media, and scholars attended the forum. ■