Georgian Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze speaks during a ceremony marking the completion of a major tunnel on the Kvesheti-Kobi road section in Kvesheti, Georgia, April 23, 2024. The China Railway Tunnel Group completed this tunnel on Tuesday, significantly boosting the country's connectivity.
The tunnel, located in northern Georgia, includes a 9,000-meter-long main tunnel and emergency tunnels. With its operation, travel time on the Kvesheti-Kobi road segment will be reduced from one hour to 20 minutes. (Xinhua/Cao Yang)
TBILISI, April 23 (Xinhua) -- The China Railway Tunnel Group completed a major tunnel on the Kvesheti-Kobi road section in Georgia on Tuesday, significantly boosting the country's connectivity.
The tunnel, located in northern Georgia, includes a 9,000-meter-long main tunnel and emergency tunnels. With its operation, travel time on the Kvesheti-Kobi road segment will be reduced from one hour to 20 minutes.
During a ceremony marking the completion, Georgian Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze said the tunnel, the longest in the country, will help facilitate winter travel for residents in mountainous areas and boost cargo transportation.
Kobakhidze added that the tunnel is expected to increase tourist numbers, thus bolstering Georgia's economy.
Cen Daoyong, a project manager with the Chinese company, said the tunnel's completion is pivotal for enhancing Georgia's highway network, helping to resolve winter transportation disruptions in the northern regions. ■
This photo taken on April 23, 2024 shows a scene at a ceremony marking the completion of the tunnel on the Kvesheti-Kobi road section in Georgia. The China Railway Tunnel Group completed a major tunnel on the Kvesheti-Kobi road section in Georgia on Tuesday, significantly boosting the country's connectivity. (Xinhua/Cao Yang)
This photo taken on April 23, 2024 shows a scene at a ceremony marking the completion of the tunnel on the Kvesheti-Kobi road section in Georgia The China Railway Tunnel Group completed a major tunnel on the Kvesheti-Kobi road section in Georgia on Tuesday, significantly boosting the country's connectivity. (Xinhua/Cao Yang)
This photo taken on April 23, 2024 shows the tunnel-boring machine Caucasus at the construction site of the tunnel on the Kvesheti-Kobi road section in Georgia. The China Railway Tunnel Group completed a major tunnel on the Kvesheti-Kobi road section in Georgia on Tuesday, significantly boosting the country's connectivity. (Xinhua/Cao Yang)