BUCHAREST, July 5 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese classical dance show "Beauty Beyond Words" captivated audiences on Thursday evening at Bucharest's National Theater.
The event, performed by the Beijing Dance Academy, was part of a series of celebrations marking the 75th anniversary of diplomatic ties and the 20th anniversary of the comprehensive friendly and cooperative partnership between China and Romania.
Following successful performances at the Sibiu International Theater Festival and in Brasov, the Beijing Dance Academy once again received high praise from Romanian audiences.
Around 900 people attended the performance, including ambassadors and representatives from over 20 countries, Romanian ministerial-level officials, former politicians and local residents.
The performers showcased the unique charm of Chinese dance. From the elegant beauty of the solo dances "Cloud Fairy" and "Flying Apsaras" to the lingering love of the duets "Butterfly Lovers" and "Farewell at the Pavilion," the dance works are based on Chinese traditional culture, blending gentleness and strength.
Chinese Ambassador to Romania Han Chunlin highlighted the importance of cultural exchange in promoting dialogue among civilizations.
Irina Cajal, undersecretary of state of the Romanian Culture Ministry, praised the performance, noting its significance as a bridge between the past and future in the relationship between China and Romania.
She commended the ongoing cultural exchanges between the two countries in theater, film, music, art and photography and anticipated deeper cultural cooperation in the future.
The audience was deeply impressed by the performances. Seventeen-year-old student Ilinca Budura was particularly struck by the "Thousand-handed Bodhisattva."
IT consultant Octavia remarked on the beauty, diversity, and uniqueness of Chinese classical dance and expressed a newfound interest in traveling to China. "I think this is going to encourage people to want to learn more about Chinese culture," Octavia said.
The event was co-hosted by the Chinese Embassy in Romania and the Romanian Ministry of Culture. ■