A student choir performs during an event organized by Confucius Institute of Transilvania University of Brasov to mark the UN Chinese Language Day in Brasov, central Romania, April 19, 2024. (Photo by Cristian Cristel/Xinhua)
BRASOV, Romania, April 20 (Xinhua) -- The Confucius Institute of Transylvania University of Brasov, Romania, hosted on Friday a series of activities to celebrate the international Chinese Language Day.
Attendees were treated to a diverse array of performances, including Chinese and Romanian song renditions, guzheng performances, and demonstrations of Tai Chi and martial arts.
The event, themed "Chinese: Building a Bridge for Mutual Learning among Civilizations", also featured the screening of an award-winning video work titled "My Story with China: The Sino-Romanian Friendship through My Eyes" and a cultural lecture on the theme of "Dao" in Romania.
Zhang Lili, cultural counselor of the Chinese Embassy in Romania, voiced her hope for more students to join Confucius Institutes to learn Chinese, fostering a deeper understanding of Chinese history and culture and enhancing mutual understanding and friendship between China and Romania.
Corina Micu, Coordinator of the International Relations Office at Transylvania University of Brasov, highlighted the profound cultural significance of International Chinese Language Day, noting that language serves as a window to understanding culture, facilitating deeper exchanges and understanding among different peoples.
Stefan Ciocanel, a second-year student at the adult class of the Confucius Institute, highlighted the pivotal role of language in cultural exchange, citing his six-month China tour last year as enriching his understanding of Chinese culture, sparking a strong interest in tea culture, traditional Chinese medicine, and clothing.
Serban Toader, a Chinese language teacher at the Faculty of Literature at Transylvania University, encouraged young people to visit China, deepen their understanding of Chinese culture through language exchange and firsthand experiences, and thereby establish closer friendships and connections.
During the day, the attendees also participated in a Chinese lecture on "The Categorization of Words in Chinese Grammar" and experienced activities such as brush calligraphy and paper cutting brought by the Confucius Institute teachers.
The event attracted around 100 attendees, including students and faculty from Transylvania University, local high schools, enthusiasts of Chinese language and culture, as well as representatives from other Confucius Institutes and Chinese companies.
Since its establishment in March 2012 with the participation of China's Shenyang Jianzhu University, the Confucius Institute at Transylvania University has trained thousands of students. ■
 
A student performs during an event organized by Confucius Institute of Transilvania University of Brasov to mark the UN Chinese Language Day in Brasov, central Romania, April 19, 2024. (Photo by Cristian Cristel/Xinhua)
A student performs during an event organized by Confucius Institute of Transilvania University of Brasov to mark the UN Chinese Language Day in Brasov, central Romania, April 19, 2024. (Photo by Cristian Cristel/Xinhua)
People attend an event organized by Confucius Institute of Transilvania University of Brasov to mark the UN Chinese Language Day in Brasov, central Romania, April 19, 2024. (Photo by Cristian Cristel/Xinhua)