Giant panda Tian Bao is seen at the Pairi Daiza zoo in Brugelette, Belgium, Oct. 13, 2024. Belgian animal park Pairi Daiza announced on Oct. 23, 2024 that three of its five pandas will return to China on Dec. 10, as part of an agreement with the China Wildlife Conservation Association. Tian Bao, born in 2016, and twins Bao Di and Bao Mei, born in 2019, will go back to the Giant Panda Base in Bifengxia, a research and breeding center for giant pandas located in the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan Province. The parents of the three pandas, Hao Hao and Xing Hui, will remain at the park, according to Pairi Daiza. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
BRUSSELS, Oct. 23 (Xinhua) -- Belgian animal park Pairi Daiza announced on Wednesday that three of its five pandas will return to China on Dec. 10, as part of an agreement with the China Wildlife Conservation Association.
Tian Bao, born in 2016, and twins Bao Di and Bao Mei, born in 2019, will go back to the Giant Panda Base in Bifengxia, a research and breeding center for giant pandas located in the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan Province.
The pandas will continue their regular routines at Pairi Daiza until Nov. 11, after which they will enter quarantine in preparation for their journey, the park said in a statement.
"The preparations for the departure of these precious animals are already in full swing," said the Pairi Daiza, adding that it is doing everything possible to ensure the pandas could depart under the best conditions.
The parents of the three pandas, Hao Hao and Xing Hui, will remain at the park, it said.
The panda loan agreement, signed in 2013, allowed the pair to stay in Belgium for 15 years. Under the terms, their offspring must be returned to China at the age of four to join breeding and conservation efforts.
However, the process of the panda cubs' return to China has been delayed by the restrictive measures during the COVID-19 pandemic. ■
This photo taken on Oct. 13, 2024 shows the entrance of the Pairi Daiza zoo in Brugelette, Belgium. Belgian animal park Pairi Daiza announced on Oct. 23, 2024 that three of its five pandas will return to China on Dec. 10, as part of an agreement with the China Wildlife Conservation Association.
Tian Bao, born in 2016, and twins Bao Di and Bao Mei, born in 2019, will go back to the Giant Panda Base in Bifengxia, a research and breeding center for giant pandas located in the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan Province. The parents of the three pandas, Hao Hao and Xing Hui, will remain at the park, according to Pairi Daiza. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
Giant panda Bao Mei is seen at the Pairi Daiza zoo in Brugelette, Belgium, Oct. 13, 2024. Belgian animal park Pairi Daiza announced on Oct. 23, 2024 that three of its five pandas will return to China on Dec. 10, as part of an agreement with the China Wildlife Conservation Association.
Tian Bao, born in 2016, and twins Bao Di and Bao Mei, born in 2019, will go back to the Giant Panda Base in Bifengxia, a research and breeding center for giant pandas located in the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan Province. The parents of the three pandas, Hao Hao and Xing Hui, will remain at the park, according to Pairi Daiza. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)
Giant panda Bao Di is seen at the Pairi Daiza zoo in Brugelette, Belgium, Oct. 13, 2024. Belgian animal park Pairi Daiza announced on Oct. 23, 2024 that three of its five pandas will return to China on Dec. 10, as part of an agreement with the China Wildlife Conservation Association.
Tian Bao, born in 2016, and twins Bao Di and Bao Mei, born in 2019, will go back to the Giant Panda Base in Bifengxia, a research and breeding center for giant pandas located in the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan Province. The parents of the three pandas, Hao Hao and Xing Hui, will remain at the park, according to Pairi Daiza. (Xinhua/Meng Dingbo)