ROME, Aug. 1 (Xinhua) -- Italy's relations with China are of high priority for the country and their trade ties have the potential to grow, several experts told Xinhua after Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni's recent visit to China.
During her official visit to Beijing from July 27 to 31, Meloni said Italy hopes to strengthen dialogue with China, tap the potential and deepen bilateral cooperation in such fields as trade, investment, electric vehicles, and artificial intelligence, strengthen people-to-people exchanges, and encourage more Italian products to enter the Chinese market.
Alberto Antonucci, an independent consultant and professor of business strategy at Italy's H-Farm College, told Xinhua that the two countries can complement each other in the green economy. "Italy wants to make a green transition and China undoubtedly has a great advantage on electric vehicles and batteries," he said.
"If Italy really wants to lead in this area, it either has to strike a partnership with an existing industrial infrastructure in China, or it needs to postpone its plans for the next five or six years," he added.
Mario Boselli, chairman of the Italy China Council Foundation, noted that Italy and China remain important trade partners and there is potential for their trade ties to grow even more. "There is no doubt that strengthening ties with China is a high priority for the Italian government," he said.
According to the expert, the future could witness future deals in the electric and hybrid vehicle markets. "Meloni is seeking an electric carmaker to build a facility in Italy, that would boost the country's industrial base while giving the Chinese company easy access to the European Union markets," Boselli said.
Noting that Italy and China have "a unique connection," Silvia Menegazzi, a professor for international relations at the Department of Political Science at Rome's LUISS University, said Italy has had its ties with China over many years, as this visit has shown.
Meloni's visit coincides with the 700th anniversary of Marco Polo's death and the 20th anniversary of the comprehensive strategic partnership between Italy and China. During her stay in Beijing, she attended the inauguration of an exhibition featuring the Venetian merchant's journeys between the East and the West.
During her first visit to China since taking office, Italy signed multiple agreements with China. The two sides also issued a 2024-2027 action plan to strengthen their comprehensive strategic partnership.
Menegazzi, also a founding partner of the Center for Studies of Contemporary China, told Xinhua that the latest trip would lay the foundation for some important initiatives between the two countries in the future. ■