Students learn Chinese at Haci Bayram Veli University in Ankara, Türkiye, on March 26, 2024. In Ankara, the capital of Türkiye, the study of the Chinese language at Haci Bayram Veli University has opened doors to cultural enrichment and employment prospects in a country facing a tough job market. (Photo by Mustafa Kaya/Xinhua) 
by Burak Akinci
ANKARA, March 29 (Xinhua) -- In Ankara, the capital of Türkiye, the study of the Chinese language at Haci Bayram Veli University has opened doors to cultural enrichment and employment prospects in a country facing a tough job market.
"For me, the prospect of employment is very promising, which is one of the primary reasons I opted for this department," remarked Esma Alkin, an 18-year-old Turkish freshman enrolled in the Chinese Language and Literature Department at the university.
Citing China's remarkable economic progress, Alkin expressed hope for robust employment prospects post-graduation.
The department, established just last year, has seen a spike in student interest, said Assistant Professor Cile Maden Kalkan, also the department's deputy head. Kalkan noted a rise in inquiries from students, who were drawn to the curriculum and potential career opportunities, especially in the private sector.
This increased interest is part of a larger trend of cultural exchange between Türkiye and China, Kalkan observed. She pointed out that China's economic advancements and global initiatives have created significant opportunities for Türkiye, sparking a surge in enthusiasm for learning about the Chinese language and culture.
Selinay Altintas, another freshman, echoed these sentiments, emphasizing the vast opportunities that await those proficient in Chinese language and culture. Attracted by Chinese dance and cuisine, Altintas said she aimed to delve into China's cultural richness by continuing her studies in China.
Against the backdrop of Türkiye's economic challenges, mastering the Chinese language emerges as a strategic advantage in the fiercely competitive job market, Alkin noted.
Yuan Zhang, an instructor at the department, highlighted the exponential growth in academic exchanges between Türkiye and China, underscoring the increasing mutual interest in each other's language and culture.
"Every year, there is a growing number of Turkish students invited to China to continue their studies," he said, adding that "learning Chinese can open doors to new opportunities."
With the establishment of the China-Türkiye strategic cooperative relationship in 2010, economic and cultural cooperation between the two nations has flourished. The China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative has also become a medium of extensive multilateral cooperation between the two sides.
The Chinese Language and Literature Department is "100 percent full now," said Giray Fidan, a Turkish expert in Chinese language and history based at the university.
"This shows how much interest there is in Türkiye towards learning Chinese and discovering its history and culture," the scholar said. ■
Students learn Chinese at Haci Bayram Veli University in Ankara, Türkiye, on March 26, 2024. In Ankara, the capital of Türkiye, the study of the Chinese language at Haci Bayram Veli University has opened doors to cultural enrichment and employment prospects in a country facing a tough job market. (Photo by Mustafa Kaya/Xinhua)
Yuan Zhang (Front), an instructor at the Chinese Language and Literature Department at Haci Bayram Veli University, teaches Chinese in Ankara, Türkiye, on March 26, 2024. In Ankara, the capital of Türkiye, the study of the Chinese language at Haci Bayram Veli University has opened doors to cultural enrichment and employment prospects in a country facing a tough job market. (Photo by Mustafa Kaya/Xinhua)
Students learn Chinese at Haci Bayram Veli University in Ankara, Türkiye, on March 26, 2024. In Ankara, the capital of Türkiye, the study of the Chinese language at Haci Bayram Veli University has opened doors to cultural enrichment and employment prospects in a country facing a tough job market. (Photo by Mustafa Kaya/Xinhua)