A participant tries the long-pot tea during the "Cultural China, Splendid Sichuan" event in Auckland, New Zealand, Nov. 29, 2023. Kiwis are amazed by unique cultural events and cuisine from southwest China's Sichuan Province during a tourism promotion event held here on Wednesday.(Photo by Zhao Gang/Xinhua)
AUCKLAND, New Zealand, Nov. 29 (Xinhua) -- Kiwis are amazed by unique cultural events and cuisine from southwest China's Sichuan Province during a tourism promotion event held here on Wednesday.
The "Cultural China, Splendid Sichuan" features the long-pot tea art, a large puppet performance, the unique Sichuan Opera act "Face Changing," other local dances and performances, as well as Sichuan's spicy cuisine.
Chen Shijie, Chinese consul-general in Auckland, said China is opening its arms to resume the links with the outside world. By July this year, the number of Chinese tourists to New Zealand reached 84 percent of the pre-COVID level. New Zealanders are also welcome to visit China, particularly to enjoy the unique cuisine, splendid landscape, and rich culture of Sichuan Province.
New Zealand's former speaker, Sir David Carter, echoed that Kiwis are great international travellers.
"We love to explore the world and in that, I see a huge opportunity for China. China has everything that New Zealand has. You have the scenery and beauty of the landscape, but you have more. You have the history and culture that a young country like New Zealand can never claim. I am sure that Sichuan has everything to offer," Carter said.
Chairman of New Zealand China Trade Association (NZCTA) Martin Thomson said, "It is great to see more exchanges this year since COVID. With two-way communications, there are more opportunities for people-to-people connections and trade opportunities. I am optimistic about the relationship to grow more between the two countries."
Apart from watching the cultural performances, many Kiwi participants tried the long-pot tea onsite and eventually found out it is not easy to pour the tea into a small cup through the meter-long-pot.
Mike Dawson, president of the Auckland Branch of the New Zealand China Friendship Society, used "amazing" many times to express his feelings.
"Of course, the face-changing is amazing, the long-pot tea is amazing. But I like the big puppet in particular doing the Chinese characters," Dawson said, "The food here is also my favorite. I've never tasted it before. They are very wonderful. I am eager to go to China again after this event." ■
 
A participant shows a dough figurine of giant panda during the "Cultural China, Splendid Sichuan" event in Auckland, New Zealand, Nov. 29, 2023. Kiwis are amazed by unique cultural events and cuisine from southwest China's Sichuan Province during a tourism promotion event held here on Wednesday.(Photo by Zhao Gang/Xinhua)