An inheritor of intangible cultural heritage shows paper-cutting techniques at the Xiamen University Malaysia (XMUM) in Selangor state, Malaysia, Nov. 24, 2023. The Canton Rhythms for Silk Road concert was held at the XMUM on Friday evening. The concert, consisting of renowned compositions such as A Hundred Birds Worshipping the Phoenix, Rain Hitting Banana Trees, and Step by Step High, as well as the traditional Malaysian folk music Rasa Sayang with traditional Chinese musical instruments, drew loud applause from the audience.
Outside the concert hall, an exhibition of Guangdong's intangible cultural heritage items, such as Guangdong paper-cutting, Foshan woodblock prints, Dawu clay sculpture, Fengxi handmade red clay teapot, Chaozhou tea art, and Shaoguan Yao ethnic embroidery, attracted a lot of local people. (Xinhua/Cheng Yiheng)
by Mao Pengfei, Wang Yi, Cheng Yiheng
KUALA LUMPUR, Nov. 25 (Xinhua) -- "I have been shocked since the first song," Chinese Malaysian student Yi Xiner said at the Xiamen University Malaysia (XMUM), where the Canton Rhythms for Silk Road concert was held on Friday evening.
Chen Jianwen, head of south China's Guangdong provincial publicity department, and Abdul Majid Ahmad Khan, president of the Malaysia-China Friendship Association, were among the audience at the traditional Cantonese concert, which is typical of the charm of Lingnan culture.
Chen hoped the event will promote in-depth cultural exchanges between China and Malaysia, and further enhance friendship between the two peoples through music.
The concert, consisting of renowned compositions such as A Hundred Birds Worshipping the Phoenix, Rain Hitting Banana Trees, and Step by Step High, as well as the traditional Malaysian folk music Rasa Sayang with traditional Chinese musical instruments, drew loud applause from the audience.
Yi, an XMUM student, loves traditional Chinese culture since she was a child and has played Guzheng, a zither-like Chinese string instrument, for about 11 years. "This is the first time I enjoy Gaohu's live performance. It is so wonderful. The imitating bird sounds are so real that they harmonize with the sound of flute," she said.
Majid was a former Malaysian ambassador to China. He was surprised to hear Rasa Sayang played by traditional Chinese musical instruments. "I expect more Chinese art troupes to come to Malaysia, not only helpful for Malaysians to understand Chinese culture, but also for Chinese artists to understand Malaysian culture."
Outside the concert hall, an exhibition of Guangdong's intangible cultural heritage items, such as Guangdong paper-cutting, Foshan woodblock prints, Dawu clay sculpture, Fengxi handmade red clay teapot, Chaozhou tea art, and Shaoguan Yao ethnic embroidery, attracted a lot of local people.
These activities are part of programs held in Kuala Lumpur, the last leg of the 2023 Charming China - Cultural Exhibition from Guangdong hosted by the information office of the Guangdong provincial government and the Guangdong provincial department of culture and tourism.
Prior to this, the exhibition from Guangdong was staged in Italy and Egypt to promote cultural exchanges and mutual learning between China and European, African countries, and to showcase the heritage of Chinese culture and the charm of Lingnan culture to the world. ■
Artists perform at the Canton Rhythms for Silk Road concert at the Xiamen University Malaysia (XMUM) in Selangor state, Malaysia, Nov. 24, 2023. The Canton Rhythms for Silk Road concert was held at the XMUM on Friday evening. The concert, consisting of renowned compositions such as A Hundred Birds Worshipping the Phoenix, Rain Hitting Banana Trees, and Step by Step High, as well as the traditional Malaysian folk music Rasa Sayang with traditional Chinese musical instruments, drew loud applause from the audience.
Outside the concert hall, an exhibition of Guangdong's intangible cultural heritage items, such as Guangdong paper-cutting, Foshan woodblock prints, Dawu clay sculpture, Fengxi handmade red clay teapot, Chaozhou tea art, and Shaoguan Yao ethnic embroidery, attracted a lot of local people. (Xinhua/Cheng Yiheng)
An artist shows the making of a clay sculpture at the Xiamen University Malaysia (XMUM) in Selangor state, Malaysia, Nov. 24, 2023. The Canton Rhythms for Silk Road concert was held at the XMUM on Friday evening. The concert, consisting of renowned compositions such as A Hundred Birds Worshipping the Phoenix, Rain Hitting Banana Trees, and Step by Step High, as well as the traditional Malaysian folk music Rasa Sayang with traditional Chinese musical instruments, drew loud applause from the audience.
Outside the concert hall, an exhibition of Guangdong's intangible cultural heritage items, such as Guangdong paper-cutting, Foshan woodblock prints, Dawu clay sculpture, Fengxi handmade red clay teapot, Chaozhou tea art, and Shaoguan Yao ethnic embroidery, attracted a lot of local people. (Xinhua/Cheng Yiheng)
Audience enjoy the Canton Rhythms for Silk Road concert at the Xiamen University Malaysia (XMUM) in Selangor state, Malaysia, Nov. 24, 2023. The Canton Rhythms for Silk Road concert was held at the XMUM on Friday evening. The concert, consisting of renowned compositions such as A Hundred Birds Worshipping the Phoenix, Rain Hitting Banana Trees, and Step by Step High, as well as the traditional Malaysian folk music Rasa Sayang with traditional Chinese musical instruments, drew loud applause from the audience.
Outside the concert hall, an exhibition of Guangdong's intangible cultural heritage items, such as Guangdong paper-cutting, Foshan woodblock prints, Dawu clay sculpture, Fengxi handmade red clay teapot, Chaozhou tea art, and Shaoguan Yao ethnic embroidery, attracted a lot of local people. (Xinhua/Cheng Yiheng)