Chinese Vice President Han Zheng delivers a keynote speech while attending the opening ceremony of the sixth Bloomberg New Economy Forum in Singapore, Nov. 8, 2023. (Xinhua/Gao Jie)
SINGAPORE, Nov. 8 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Vice President Han Zheng said on Wednesday that China will continue to promote innovation to drive world economic recovery, seek cooperation through opening-up, and offer more market and investment opportunities to the rest of the world.
Han made the remarks in his keynote speech at the sixth Bloomberg New Economy Forum held in Singapore.
"China will unswervingly promote a high level of opening-up to the outside world, and is willing to provide more market and investment opportunities to share the benefits of its institutional opening-up with world companies," Han said.
He pointed out that China will continue to create more dynamics through innovation which is the driving force for the world economy to accelerate recovery and move forward steadily.
China will make more efforts to share innovation achievements with other countries, jointly address the challenges of climate change and inject new momentum into world economic growth, Han said.
China is willing to work with other countries to maintain world peace and security, seek common development and prosperity for all countries, and build a community with a shared future for humanity, he said.
On China-U.S. ties, Han noted that recent important high-level contacts between China and the United States have boosted the international community's positive expectations for future improvements in China-U.S. ties.
China is willing to strengthen communication and dialogue with the U.S. side, promote mutually beneficial cooperation, properly manage differences between the two countries, and make joint efforts to address global challenges, said the Chinese vice president.
Han also met Mike Bloomberg, founder of the Bloomberg New Economy Forum and Bloomberg L.P., and VIP representatives who attended the event, on the sidelines of the forum.
During his visit to Singapore, Han met with Singaporean President Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and other senior government officials.
At a meeting with President Tharman, Han said China and Singapore are important cooperation partners, and their cooperation has shown strong resilience and vitality, which he believed will produce more and better results in the future.
As the world faces global risks and challenges, it is necessary for all countries to uphold true multilateralism and reach consensus to promote cooperation, Han said.
He stressed that China will inject more certainty into the world with its own stability and take advantage of its own development to bring more new opportunities to the rest of the world.
Tharman said Singapore is willing to cooperate with China to deepen practical cooperation in various fields, so as to better benefit the people of the two countries.
While meeting with Lee, Han said leaders of the two countries elevated China-Singapore relations to an all-round high-quality future-oriented partnership in March this year, marking a milestone in the relationship between the two countries.
China will join hands with Singapore to build high-quality "Belt and Road", work together to upgrade cooperation projects between the two countries, seek closer cooperation in people-to-people exchanges and communication, and make better use of bilateral cooperation mechanism, so as to make new contributions to regional prosperity and stability, said the Chinese vice president.
For his part, Lee said Singapore and China enjoy a profound traditional friendship, and Singapore is ready to cooperate with China in deepening the alignment of their development strategies.
Lee added that Singapore will make greater efforts to ensure the success of a new round of bilateral cooperation mechanism meeting and push an all-round high-quality future-oriented partnership between the two countries to a new level.
The sixth annual Bloomberg New Economy Forum is being held here on Nov. 8-10, with this year's theme being "Embracing Instability." It highlights challenges confronting the global economy and underscores the opportunity to address underlying issues such as persistent inflation, geopolitical tensions, the rise of artificial intelligence and climate change. ■