Shekhar Dongol, a Nepalese student who studies at Tianjin University, donates blood at a mobile blood collection site in north China's Tianjin Municipality, Dec. 28, 2023. (Xinhua)
TIANJIN, Dec. 31 (Xinhua) -- Nepalese student Shekhar Dongol has donated blood 18 times in the course of his life, and two of those occasions took place in China this year.
Dongol, who studies at Tianjin University, donated blood at a mobile blood collection site in north China's Tianjin Municipality on Thursday. He also received a certificate of voluntary blood donation.
The ongoing cold weather, with heavy rain and snow, has led to an increase in patients suffering from cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, resulting in high demand for blood for clinical treatment in Tianjin.
"I hope to help those in need in China in this way," Dongol said.
Soon after he enrolled at Tianjin University in March this year, Dongol contacted the school and asked for information on donating blood. Within a month, he had completed his first donation, said Zhao Zhipeng, a teacher with Tianjin University's School of International Education.
"Dongol told us that regular blood donation is not only beneficial for society, but also helps the donor develop scientific and reasonable dietary and lifestyle habits. It is a healthy practice worth maintaining," Zhao said.
Dongol started donating blood at the age of 19 through events organized by the Red Cross Society of Nepal, and he has continued the habit ever since. "In Nepal, we have a saying that donating blood saves lives," he said.
Dongol is currently pursuing a doctoral degree in architecture at Tianjin University. Focusing on cultural heritage protection, Dongol hopes to apply his knowledge to the research and protection of the ancient Silk Road trade corridor in Nepal.
"Love knows no borders. I will continue donating blood in the future while I'm staying in China," Dongol said.
He hopes that his life and studies in Tianjin will contribute to building a bridge of friendship between China and Nepal. ■