SINGAPORE, June 19 (Xinhua) -- Chen Wenqing, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and head of the Commission for Political and Legal Affairs of the CPC Central Committee, met with Singaporean Prime Minister Lawrence Wong here on Wednesday and attended the fourth China-Singapore Social Governance Forum.
During the meeting, Chen said that Chinese and Singaporean leaders elevated bilateral relations to an all-round high-quality future-oriented partnership last year, drawing the blueprint for the two countries in the new era.
China and Singapore continue to deepen high-quality cooperation in joint construction of the Belt and Road and jointly safeguard multilateralism and free trade, he said.
Such efforts not only promote economic and social progress in the two countries but also advance peace and stability, as well as development and prosperity in the region, Chen noted.
China is willing to work with Singapore to promote the building of a community with a shared future for humanity, and implement the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative, and the Global Civilization Initiative, Chen said.
China is also willing to make joint efforts with Singapore to improve in-depth and practical cooperation in the construction of the Belt and Road, and deepen cooperation in law enforcement, security, and social governance, Chen noted.
For his part, Wong said that Singapore and China have maintained close and friendly relations for a long time and the all-round high-quality future-oriented partnership has achieved continuous progress.
He expressed the hope to deepen and expand practical cooperation in various fields with China and jointly safeguard regional peace and security.
While delivering a speech at the fourth China-Singapore Social Governance Forum, Chen said effective social governance in accordance with the law is a common issue faced by all countries across the world.
He said China will steadfastly follow the path of socialist rule of law with Chinese characteristics to consolidate fundamentals, stabilize expectations, deliver long-term benefits, and build a modern socialist country. ■