A lion dance performance is staged during the opening ceremony of the Sydney Lunar New Year Dragon Boat Festival 2024 at Darling Harbour in Sydney, Australia, Feb. 16, 2024. (Xinhua/Ma Ping)
SYDNEY, Feb. 17 (Xinhua) -- When days of dreary weather gave way to a gloriously sunny sky, the biggest dragon boat festival in the Southern Hemisphere kicked off in Sydney's city center to mark the Chinese Lunar New Year with some Australia's twist.
On Friday, the Sydney Lunar New Year Dragon Boat Festival 2024 began with a bang, as an incredible 1,300 paddlers from 48 corporate teams as well as a few international and interstate crews churn up water at the iconic Darling Harbor.
Following the cadence relayed by a drummer and instructions of a sweep from aft, each fiberglass boat was gigged with decorative Chinese dragon heads and tails, holding a maximum of 20 paddlers in pairs for 200-meter sprints.
Participants came from all walks of life in Australia and abroad, including banks, universities, public services, and many other sectors, also with a broad spectrum of culture backgrounds and age groups.
By bonding every individual together through teamwork, the traditional Chinese sport spread joy in the air for a prosperous new year and the delightful atmosphere captivated a steady stream of spectators from midday to night, including Lynne, a U.S. traveler in her 60s.
Facing toward Pyrmont Bridge where the starting line was situated, Lynne wore a red Chinese Tang suit, immersing herself in the spirit of the Lunar New Year with a hope for good luck.
Upon her arrival in early January, Lynne kept a close eye on the internet to see if any unique festivities were happening in Sydney. The dragon boat festival stood out to her.
"This is a great one for a spectator. And also, we have a friend who's a breast cancer survivor and rose on a dragon boat. So we're here to support and get some pictures for her to see the spectacle," she said.
Lynne is no stranger to this time-honored water sport, as her home is in the U.S. metropolis of Chicago, which boasts a lively Chinatown and dragon boat races annually held on the Chicago River.
The grand scale of the festival at Darling Harbor, however, left a deep impression on her. "It's wonderful. Obviously, a lot of people know about it and come out for it," said Lynne.
Ever since its inaugural edition in 1984, the Dragon Boat Festival has flourished from a humble beginning at Farm Cove in Sydney Harbor into a spectacular event now held at one of Australia's landmarks with an efficient organization.
David Krantz, chief executive officer of Dragon Boat New South Wales (NSW), told Xinhua that the first year saw paddlers battling two-meter swells, ferries going across the course, and boats flipping.
"But it was such a great experience. It captured the imagination of people here in Sydney. After two years of doing it in those conditions, a few people who were leading in the sport at that time lobbied the New South Wales government to get the event to occur in Darling Harbor," said Krantz.
Krantz's first introduction to dragon boat racing sprang just over 12 months ago, when his attention was captured by some photos of last year's festival.
"I just saw these photos during the awakening of the dragon or the eye-dotting ceremony. And I just saw the water splashing, and the smiling faces. I thought what is this sport?" said the chief executive officer who joined the state's governing body for dragon boating after that.
Just one year later, Krantz was able to experience this cultural event firsthand at Cockle Bay Marina, rather than looking at it through photographs.
On Friday night, a special opening ceremony unfolded with the attendance of Sydney Deputy Mayor Robert Kok, Acting Chinese Consul General in Sydney Yu Jie, Director of the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office in Sydney Trista Lim, and other guests.
After a Welcome-to-Country and smoking ritual to acknowledge the aboriginal traditional owners of Australia, dragon boats returned to the wharf for eye-dotting, according to Chinese customs.
Guests dotted the protruding eyes of each dragon with a Chinese calligraphy brush and sprinkled water over the head of the mystic creature before dropping "Zongzi" (sticky rice dumplings wrapped in bamboo leaves) into the water.
Two ornately decorated lions then moved onto the floating docks, interacting with crews and staging thrilling stacks, while paddlers also enjoyed the moment by playfully splashing water to each other.
"The Sydney Lunar New Dragon Boat Festival should be a perfect combination of Australian culture and Chinese culture. As Aussies, we absolutely love sport and sport means the world to us. That is also a great cultural event and brings together all of those elements that are appealing to Australian people," said Krantz.
This year marks the maiden time for Krantz to lead the Dragon Boat NSW in hosting a Dragon Boat Festival.
As a person born in the Year of the Dragon, his connection with this Chinese Zodiac and dragon boat racing prompted the 36-year-old executive to push for a novel shift in the sport: turning the regatta into a festival that people worldwide want to come and get involved in.
"We've shifted now to become effectively a three-day event for international and interstate teams to be able to get more opportunities to compete. And it all culminates on Sunday when we have the Sydney International Grand Championship," Krantz introduced.
The top 24 mixed teams will be invited to this new format based on their performance during Saturday's club racing and there will be a "knockout competition with random draws."
Besides, a NSW Championship trophy is up for grabs for regional teams across the state, the Pink Championship is set up for breast cancer survivors, and a dress-up race will make its debut to add more fun and color to the new-look festival.
Another highlight of this year, according to Krantz, is all-day entertainment.
Traditional Chinese displays, such as lion dancing, dragon dancing, and martial arts, will offer visitors a glimpse into the culture of the Asian country, with roving performances, including Bondi Lifeguards on stilts, to showcase the Australian flair.
From Friday to Sunday, over 3,000 paddlers in total are expected to battle it out for glory, with hundreds of thousands of people cheering at the waterfront promenade.
"It is a sport that anybody could jump in and be involved in and, and that's what is beautiful about dragon boating: there's no one superstar who carries the boat, every single person has to contribute equally because you're only as strong as your weakest link at the end of the day," said Krantz.
He hoped that everyone would have the desire to come back next year, whether as a paddler or a spectator again.
Looking ahead, Krantz envisioned the festival to be on par with every one of those other world-leading events and even rise to "the best of the best" for international teams to compete.
"That's going to bring in people that love cultural aspects but also love sporting aspects. So my long-term goal is to show off both parts of the sport so that we can attract absolutely everybody to want to be involved with us," he added. ■
Lion dance performers interact with participants during the opening ceremony of the Sydney Lunar New Year Dragon Boat Festival 2024 at Darling Harbour in Sydney, Australia, Feb. 16, 2024. (Xinhua/Ma Ping)
Participants race during the Sydney Lunar New Year Dragon Boat Festival 2024 at Darling Harbour in Sydney, Australia, Feb. 16, 2024. (Xinhua/Ma Ping)
David Krantz, chief executive officer of Dragon Boat New South Wales (NSW), speaks during an interview with Xinhua in Sydney, Australia, Feb. 12, 2024. (Xinhua/Ma Ping)
Participants race during the Sydney Lunar New Year Dragon Boat Festival 2024 at Darling Harbour in Sydney, Australia, Feb. 16, 2024. (Xinhua/Ma Ping)