SAMARKAND, May 4 (Xinhua) -- In Kattakurgan, some 50 km northwest of Samarkand, Uzbekistan's bustling gem and second-largest city, lies an ocean of solar panels, casting waves of dazzling radiance beneath the Central Asian sun.
The 220 MWac Samarkand solar PV plant, constructed by Chengdu-based Dongfang Electric Corporation (DEC), greeted the public for the first time on Monday after its installation in April.
At the doors-open event, Deputy Minister of Energy of Uzbekistan Umid Mamadaminov said the project is "one of the first large-scale renewable energy projects in Uzbekistan." He added that it is significant for strengthening Uzbek-Chinese ties, expanding bilateral cooperation and showcasing China's commitment to and experience in green development.
DEC adheres to its mission to "Shape the Future with Green Power" and works with all stakeholders to share development results and create a better future, said Yuan Minggang, from the top management of DEC.
Sherzod Mukhammadiyev, a 26-year-old engineer who has been working on the project since August 2023, is responsible for the technical support of construction on site.
"I think our Chinese colleagues are enthusiastic and energetic, and I have acquired a lot of skills working with them. I appreciate the youth employment opportunities the project brings. I am proud to participate in it and contribute to the construction of my hometown," he said.
Shakhnoza Mirzaeva, a 36-year-old mother of two twins who is the project's human resources manager and also oversees external relations, said she was happy about the changes in her life brought about by the project.
"I fell in love with this project very quickly. For the first time in my life, I worked with Chinese colleagues. I was deeply impressed by their openness, friendliness and professionalism in their work. I think the Chinese are very responsible," she said.
"Our project actively fulfills its social obligations by donating books to local schools and repairing sports facilities such as basketball courts, football fields and fitness centers," Mirzaeva added.
The Silk Road Book Corner also kicked off at the event. It comprises over 150 books on China's economic and social development, history and culture, literature and art, and science and technology donated by DEC to strengthen cultural ties and mutual understanding between the two peoples.
In November 2021, DEC won the bid for the Samarkand photovoltaic project, which covers an area of about 438 hectares and comprises over 450,000 photovoltaic panels.
"Once completed, the project will have a significantly positive impact on local energy structure as well as socioeconomic development," said Yuan. ■