GANGNEUNG, South Korea, Jan. 31 (Xinhua) -- China's freestyle skiers won a gold medal and a silver in the women's halfpipe event at the 2024 Gangwon Winter Youth Olympic Games here on Wednesday.
Liu Yishan clinched the women's freestyle skiing halfpipe title with all three runs led by the 16-year-old for the best score of 92.25 points.
Since her debut a year earlier, Liu has had three top-ten halfpipe results in the World Cup.
Liu's younger compatriot, 14-year-old Chen Zihan, claimed silver with 83.75 points, while Kathryn Gray of the United States took bronze.
In the men's halfpipe final, Luke Harrold of New Zealand secured gold with 94.25 points in his first run after winning bronze in big air on Sunday.
His teammate Finley Melville Ives was runner-up with 1.75 points behind the gold medalist, and Switzerland's Alan Bornet embraced bronze.
China's Su Shuaibing finished fourth in the final with the best score of 82 points.
Chinese curlers lost to Sweden in the mixed doubles quarterfinals after earning five consecutive wins in the round-robin.
Sweden will meet in the semifinals on Thursday with Britain, while the United States and Denmark will compete to advance to the final.
U.S. ice hockey players snatched the gold medal match of the men's 6-team event, beating the Czech Republic 4-0.
In the men's bronze game, Canada missed its 3-0 lead to lose to Finland in a penalty shootout.
Sweden won a 4-0 victory over Japan in the women's 6-team ice hockey gold medal match, and Germany triumphed over Switzerland 3-1 in the bronze game.
Europe continued dominance in the Nordic combined, which combines ski jumping and cross-country skiing.
Finland took gold in the mixed team normal hill/4x3.3km cross-country event, while silver and bronze medals went to Slovenia and Italy.
1,802 athletes aged 14 to 18 from 78 nations and regions are competing in four cities of Gangneung, PyeongChang, Jeongseon and Hoengseong until February 1.
The Gangwon Winter Youth Olympics features seven sports, 15 disciplines and 81 events. ■