by Joseph Matthews
The Philippine coast guard's actions in Xianbin Jiao waters in the South China Sea have not only seriously violated China's territorial sovereignty, but also posed a threat to regional peace.
Since mid-April, the Philippines has anchored its coast guard's BRP Teresa Magbanua (MRRV-9701) in the lagoon of the Xianbin Jiao and is reportedly planning to send a second vessel to anchor in the lagoon.
These moves are part of a broader strategy of the country to challenge China's sovereignty in the South China Sea, alongside the long-disputed Ren'ai Jiao and Huangyan Dao.
I strongly believe that the Philippines is planning to ground a ship on the Xianbin Jiao as it did back in 1999 when the country intentionally grounded a retired warship on Ren'ai Jiao to use it as an outpost.
Philippine President Ferdinand Romualdez Marcos's administration is portraying itself as a victim, while at the same time, inviting wolves into the house and willingly acting as their pawns.
In April, the United States moved a mid-range missile system that can fire Standard Missile-6 and Tomahawk missiles to the northern Philippines, on the pretext that the system would be used for military drills.
In my view, the system was brought to challenge China's sovereignty in the South China Sea, which threatened and endangered regional stability.
Ever since taking office, Marcos and his administration have been more assertive and aggressive in its dispute with China.
Apart from the deployment of the missile system, Marcos has also allowed the United States to use nine military bases to store military hardware and equipment, alongside arranging military drills with the United States, Japan, and Australia in the disputed waters.
These moves are indications that the administration is looking for a confrontation over consultation, and conflict instead of dialogue.
The path Marcos's administration has chosen will lead to economic, political, and social instability and high tension not only in the South China Sea, but also in the ASEAN region.
I remember that during Rodrigo Duterte's presidency, the Philippines improved its relations and cooperation with China on various issues, developing stronger and stable ties with the country, as well as a successful code of conduct with China and the rest of ASEAN.
However, relations deteriorated during the presidency of Marcos due to increasing tensions over the South China Sea.
Marcos's administration's provocations in Xianbin Jiao waters have infringed on China's sovereignty and integrity, violated the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea and threatened peace in the South China Sea and the entire region.
Therefore, China, which has indisputable sovereignty over the islands and reefs in the area and adjacent waters, is entitled to take resolute action. Enditem
Editor's note: Joseph Matthews is a senior professor at the BELTEI International University in Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Xinhua News Agency.