BANGKOK, July 4 (Xinhua) -- A roadshow of the second China International Supply Chain Expo (CISCE) was held here on Thursday, attended by around 150 representatives from Chinese and Thai government agencies, industry organizations and major companies.
Hosted by the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT), the roadshow aimed to introduce the preparation progress of the expo and extend an invitation to Thai enterprises, associations and people from various sectors, so as to promote complementary cooperation in the supply chains of China and Thailand, and to create a "win-win chain" for companies in the two countries.
Zhang Shaogang, vice chairman of CCPIT, noted that CISCE is not only an exhibition platform, but also a comprehensive platform that reflects the development of the industrial chains and the trends of supply chain cooperation.
Exhibitors at CISCE could forge long-term and stable industrial and supply chain cooperation with up, middle and downstream partners on both demand and supply sides, Zhang added.
Puntil Jongjittrakoon, vice minister for commerce of Thailand, said that the second CISCE is regarded as an important platform to promote industrial development in Asia and an important stage to determine the direction of global production and industrial changes.
As a country with potential and the desire to promote the development of the supply chain, China will make the global supply chain more complete and coordinated, Puntil added.
Narucha Ruchuphan, deputy secretary general of Thailand Board of Investment, highlighted that the second CISCE will provide Thai companies with opportunities for business matching and cooperation expansion, which will further promote the continued growth of trade and investment between Thailand and China.
Sun Weiyong, vice president of China International Exhibition Center Group Corporation, introduced the preparation progress of the six major chains and one exhibition area of the second CISCE, emphasizing the differences between CISCE and traditional exhibitions in display logic, exhibitor relations and exhibition purposes.
Sun concluded that the second China International Supply Chain Expo will provide huge opportunities for Thai companies.
The second supply chain expo is scheduled to take place in Beijing from Nov. 26 to Nov. 30, 2024, focusing on advanced manufacturing, clean energy, smart vehicles, digital technology, the health industry and green agriculture, as well as supply chain services. ■