This photo taken on Feb. 17, 2024 shows a 50 MW Chinese-built photovoltaic power plant in Mymensingh District, Bangladesh. The Mymensingh district in north-central Bangladesh enjoys better sunshine than any other place in the South Asian country. The 50 MW photovoltaic power plant invested by HDFC SinPower Ltd. whose major shareholder is China Huadian Overseas Investment Co., Ltd. started construction in September 2019 to utilize the advantage of solar resources here. (Xinhua)
by Sun Nan, Naim-Ul-Karim
DHAKA, Feb. 17 (Xinhua) -- The Mymensingh district in north-central Bangladesh has a diverse landscape of valleys and hilly terrains. With its height of 19 meters above sea, the district is the highest place of all major cities in the delta country.
Due to its elevation, the district enjoys better sunshine than any other place in the South Asian country. On a flat ground of the district, some 169,000 solar panels are laid in rows and absorbing power from the sun.
The 50 MW photovoltaic power plant invested by HDFC SinPower Ltd. whose major shareholder is China Huadian Overseas Investment Co., Ltd. started construction in September 2019 to utilize the advantage of solar resources here.
Overcoming difficulties during the construction, the project was put into commercial operation in November 2020 and became the largest solar power plant in Bangladesh at that time.
"We never thought that electricity would be generated from sunlight, (and) now electricity is being generated from sunlight," Md Nasir Uddin, a local villager, told Xinhua recently. "Many of our sons, daughters and relatives are working in this power plant, it has benefited us greatly."
As of now, the solar farm has been in continuous safe production for about 1,200 days, and the cumulative power generation reached about 300 million KWH. The clean energy generated by the plant has been delivered to the national grid for local people.
Local agriculturalist Md Rafiqul Islam Rafiq said, "the people of our entire area are proud because of the installation of the solar power plant here." Because of this plant, the locals are getting electricity, and their living standard has improved a lot, he said.
Expressing his thanks to China for the solar park under the Belt and Road Initiative, the agriculturalist said that people are getting benefits from Chinese investments in Bangladesh.
"I want to express my gratitude and thanks from the bottom of my heart to all the Chinese who have worked behind it," he said.
The plant now serves as an epitome of Bangladesh's booming green power development, as the country has announced that it will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 2030.
As an engineer of the plant, Jamel Mahmoud Faisal said, "This 50 MW PV power plant was a benchmark in technology standard or in construction standard. Because it took very little time to construct during the strict COVID situation in Bangladesh," adding that "it is China speed and it's the record."
As the first green energy project utilizing the Chinese standard, "I will say this standard is very high, for the maintenance section or for safety purposes," said the engineer.
The project reduces carbon emissions by more than 50,000 tons per year and has also completed Verified Carbon Standard certification in January 2023, marking it has international carbon trading rights.
Zhou Jinshun, chairman of HDFC SinPower Limited Company, said that on the basis of implementing the concept of low-carbon development and practicing the sustainable development of green energy, the project actively explores new value growth of green economy.
With eyes to the future, Zhou said that "we're committed to make greater contributions to promoting local economic development, improving local people's livelihood and well-being, promoting exchanges between China and Bangladesh." ■
This photo taken on Feb. 17, 2024 shows a 50 MW Chinese-built photovoltaic power plant in Mymensingh District, Bangladesh. The Mymensingh district in north-central Bangladesh enjoys better sunshine than any other place in the South Asian country. The 50 MW photovoltaic power plant invested by HDFC SinPower Ltd. whose major shareholder is China Huadian Overseas Investment Co., Ltd. started construction in September 2019 to utilize the advantage of solar resources here. (Xinhua)