SIEM REAP, Cambodia, Dec. 6 (Xinhua) -- A Cambodia-China travel fair was held here Friday in Siem Reap province in northwest Cambodia, aiming at boosting the flow of tourists between the two countries.
The three-day fair has brought together dozens of tour and travel operators, hotels, and airlines from both countries.
Speaking at the opening ceremony of the fair, Cambodian Minister of Tourism Huot Hak said China was one of the biggest sources of the international tourists to the Southeast Asian country.
"The future of Cambodia's tourism industry is inseparable from the inflows of Chinese tourists and investors," he said.
At the event, a memorandum of understanding on tourism cooperation and tour package arrangements was inked between Cambodia's Ministry of Tourism and the China Tourism Group Corporation Limited.
"This cooperation is essential to boost the flow of tourists between Cambodia and China," Hak said.
Chinese Ambassador to Cambodia Wang Wenbin said the fair was a milestone for China-Cambodia cooperation in the tourism industry, injecting fresh impetus into the development of the sector between the two countries.
He encouraged more Chinese holidaymakers to visit Cambodia, particularly the UNESCO-listed Angkor Archaeological Park in Siem Reap province.
Siem Reap Provincial Governor Prak Sophoan said Siem Reap was ready to welcome the return of Chinese tourists.
He hoped that the Chinese-invested Siem Reap Angkor International Airport (SAI), which opened to commercial operations in November 2023, would help attract more Chinese travelers and investors to the province.
Thourn Sinan, chairman of the Pacific Asia Travel Association Cambodia chapter, said the fair was crucial for promoting tourism between both nations in the post-pandemic era.
"This fair presents a vital opportunity to revitalize interest in Cambodia as a travel destination and is essential for boosting the number of Chinese travelers once again," he told Xinhua.
Sinan said Chinese tourists are vital for Cambodia's tourism industry.
"Increasing the flow of Chinese visitors is essential for economic revitalization and cultural exchange," he said.
Sinan said the current Cambodia-China tourism cooperation is promising, with growing numbers of Chinese visitors contributing significantly to the economy.
"I suggest focusing on joint marketing campaigns and travel packages tailored to the preferences of Chinese tourists to attract them back," he said.
Tourism is among the four pillars supporting Cambodia's economy, along with garment, footwear, and travel goods export, agriculture, and construction and real estate.
The country received 5.45 million international tourists in 2023, generating a gross revenue of 3.08 billion U.S. dollars, according to the Ministry of Tourism. ■