TOKYO, Feb. 14 (Xinhua) -- From red lanterns to dancing dragons, from savoring Chinese delicacies to dragon year tales, vibrant celebrations for the Chinese Lunar New Year, or Spring Festival, have been held across multiple cities in Japan, allowing more people to immerse themselves in the festive atmosphere and experience the joy and charm of China's rich traditional culture.
In Tokyo, dragon-themed decorations such as lanterns, shadow puppets, figurines, masks, and even the Chinese character "Loong" in oracle bone script adorned the China Cultural Center with a festive ambiance.
Shoji Ikegami, a Japanese translator and author of the book "The World of Dragons," held a lecture at the center the day before the Chinese Lunar New Year's Eve, introducing various forms of "dragons" in Chinese culture from ancient times to the present through images and videos.
Ikegami's lecture toured the audience into the cultural significance of dragons in China, from the zodiacal dragons, jade dragons unearthed in Inner Mongolia, dragons in oracle bone inscriptions, dragons in Confucian Analects and idioms, to the drone dragons in the southern Chinese metropolis of Shenzhen.
In the capital's Ueno Park, the "Uenode Panda New Year Festival 2024" featured lively lion dances, stunning Sichuan opera face-changing performances, and elegant Hanfu shows, leaving local residents in awe of the brilliance of Chinese traditional culture.
Various adorable auspicious dragons, giant panda dolls, and traditional handicrafts brimming with the flavor of the Lunar New Year displayed at special booths set up by the Chinese Tourism Office in Tokyo captivated visitors at the fair.
Takahiro Takauji, a renowned Japanese panda photographer who recently returned from a panda friendship tour in China, also displayed his latest photographic works related to giant pandas.
Just south of Tokyo, Yokohama Chinatown is a must-visit destination for Japanese people to experience the atmosphere of the Spring Festival, when the entire neighborhood is adorned with colorful decorations and bustling with activities.
People from not only Japan but all over the world have come to Yokohama to immerse themselves in the festive ambiance by watching dragon and lion dances and savoring Chinese delicacies.
"I came especially for the dragon dance performance and the festive vibe during this time of the year. We'll wait until the lanterns are lit up in the evening," a tourist told Xinhua.
"We came to Chinatown during the Spring Festival to experience the Chinese cultural atmosphere. We wish our motherland prosperity and peace," said a Chinese father living in Japan, hugging his young daughter who was wearing traditional Chinese clothes of Hanfu.
In the western Japanese city of Osaka, the three-day 2024 Osaka Spring Festival attracted more than 200,000 people in Tennoji Park, where people from other nations including Vietnam, Thailand, Mongolia, Nepal and Myanmar were also invited to join as this year marks the first time the United Nations has designated the Spring Festival as a United Nations holiday.
In the port city of Nagasaki, which has a long history of trade exchanges with China, a lantern festival is being held featuring a spectacular 10-meter-high, 4.5-meter-long dragon lantern.
The festival will last from the first day of the Lunar New Year until the Lantern Festival, expecting more than 1.3 million visitors, according to the organizer.
With colorful decorations and joyous festivities, more and more Japanese people are indulging in the Chinese Lunar New Year celebrations held in various cities, experiencing the festivity and charm of China's traditional festivals, and feeling the warmth and affection emanating from China's outstanding traditional culture. ■