Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev meets with Chinese State Councilor and Minister of Public Security Wang Xiaohong in Tashkent, capital of Uzbekistan, April 1, 2024. (Xinhua)
TASHKENT, April 2 (Xinhua) -- Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev met with Chinese State Councilor and Minister of Public Security Wang Xiaohong in the capital of Tashkent on Monday.
During the meeting, Wang conveyed warm greetings and good wishes from Chinese President Xi Jinping to President Mirziyoyev.
Noting that China and Uzbekistan are friendly neighbors with a shared destiny, and the traditional friendship between the two peoples runs deep, Wang said China-Uzbekistan relations have entered a "golden era," featuring rapid development under the strategic leadership of both leaders.
Wang said China is willing to follow the important consensus of the leaders of both countries; apply the principles of mutual assistance, common development, universal security and everlasting friendship to relations; implement the Global Security Initiative; and comprehensively deepen pragmatic cooperation in the field of law enforcement and security with Uzbekistan.
China is willing to enhance cooperation to combat the "three forces" of terrorism, separatism and extremism, as well as transnational crimes. China also aims to strengthen law enforcement capacity to build a solid security barrier for common development, which will make more contributions to developing an all-weather, comprehensive strategic partnership for a new era and promoting a China-Uzbekistan community with a shared future, said Wang.
President Mirziyoyev asked Wang to convey his sincere greetings and best wishes to President Xi. He affirmed Uzbekistan's firm support for China's position on issues of core interest and the willingness to jointly maintain security and stability of both countries, as well as in the region.
During his visit, Wang also met with Uzbekistan's Secretary of the National Security Council Viktor Makhmudov and Minister of Internal Affairs Pulat Bobojonov, and signed cooperation documents. ■