DUSHANBE, May 19 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said here Sunday that he had friendly in-depth exchanges with his Tajik counterpart Sirojiddin Muhriddin and reached important consensus with the latter.
They agreed that China and Tajikistan have embarked on a path of getting along with neighboring countries based on mutual respect, equal treatment, mutual benefit and win-win results, and set a fine example for the development of state-to-state relations, noted Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee.
Wang said the two sides agreed to focus on promoting cooperation in the following aspects:
Firstly, the two sides will continue to firmly support each other's core interests. China reiterates its firm support for Tajikistan in pursuing a development path suited to its national conditions, and opposes any external forces interfering in the internal affairs of the two countries and undermining their friendship, he said. Tajikistan staunchly supports China's position on the Taiwan question and firmly adheres to the one-China principle.
Secondly, the two sides will continue to tap the broad potential for mutually beneficial cooperation. The two sides are willing to explore new measures to further increase the scale of trade and expand agricultural cooperation, and speed up major connectivity projects between the two countries such as the construction of key sections of the China-Tajikistan highway, he said, adding that China will actively consider importing more high-quality Tajik agricultural products.
Thirdly, the two sides are ready to accelerate the two-way flow of people-to-people exchanges. China proposes to establish a streamlined personnel exchange platform with Tajikistan, including the issuance of 10-year multiple-entry visas for short-term visitors, such as those for business and family visits, to further facilitate personnel exchanges.
Fourthly, the two sides will steadfastly safeguard regional security and stability. China and Tajikistan will enhance exchanges and consultations on counter-intervention, and collectively guard against "color revolution," Wang said, adding that China supports the establishment of a Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) anti-drug center in Dushanbe.
Fifthly, the two countries will also maintain close multilateral coordination. Noting the two sides should bolster coordination within multilateral frameworks including the United Nations and the SCO, Wang said China supports Tajikistan in playing a more prominent role on the international stage. ■