TOKYO, March 28 (Xinhua) -- China's series of measures to promote the construction of an open world economy will help offset the negative impacts of unilateralism and trade protectionism, said a Japanese scholar.
In a recent interview with Xinhua, Manabu Takamisawa, director of the Japan-China Economic Association, expressed his hope for China to convey more voices of openness, as the 2024 Boao Forum for Asia (BFA) annual conference, themed "Asia and the World: Common Challenges, Shared Responsibilities," commenced on March 26 in Boao, a coastal town on China's island province of Hainan.
The scholar noted that China actively cultivates and develops new productive forces, leads globally in constructing a digital society, and plays a leading role in the digital revolution, smart manufacturing, industrial chain restructuring, and efficient utilization of production factors, which all contribute to the establishment of innovative and efficient business models.
Recalling his trips to the Chinese cities of Guangzhou and Beijing in January when he experienced autonomous driving, Takamisawa stated that China has achieved remarkable results in the tech field by fully leveraging its advantages and keenly capturing new opportunities such as digital technology development.
Chinese car companies will succeed in expanding the autonomous driving business in overseas markets, bringing about a revolutionary impact on global mobility, he added.
According to Takamisawa, China is committed to high-quality development and adheres to openness, and the outcomes brought by its open innovation will also provide new impetus for global economic growth.
Regarding the economic development prospects in the Asia-Pacific region, Takamisawa said that the outlook is promising, with new production bases and markets continuously emerging, becoming a hotbed for global capital investment. "The Asian economy, in terms of both quality and quantity, has enormous growth potential."
To attract more investment, countries in the Asia-Pacific region should focus on improving infrastructure, nurturing talent, and continuously expanding markets, he added.
Takamisawa also emphasized the importance of consolidating the interdependence among countries in the Asia-Pacific region, integrating their unique advantages, and continuously advancing regional economic and trade arrangements such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) to stimulate more vitality in the Asia-Pacific region. ■