A contestant takes part in the "Chinese Bridge" Chinese Proficiency Competition in Yangon, Myanmar, June 8, 2024. Students from Chinese schools across Myanmar competed in the competition held here on Saturday. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)
YANGON, June 8 (Xinhua) -- Students from Chinese schools across Myanmar competed enthusiastically in the Chinese proficiency competition held here on Saturday.
The competition has three categories: college level (ages 18-25), middle school level (ages 13-18) and primary school level (ages 6-12), according to an event organizer.
"Many participants from Chinese schools across Myanmar competed in the competition. Among them, 15 from the college level, 15 from the middle school level and 19 from the primary school level reached the finals. We choose first, second and third prizes in each level among the finalists," she said.
Myo Min Han, 18, said, "This is my first time competing, encouraged by my teacher to gain experience. In the past, I struggled with communication, but now it's much easier, and performing on stage has boosted my confidence."
"Having watched other people's performances last year, I was inspired to participate this year," Hnin Yu Aung, 24, said, adding the competition includes presentations, performances and a quiz. "Through this event, I've made many new friends and expanded my network," Hnin Yu Aung went on to say.
Moe Myint Phyu, 22, said that "this was my second time competing, the last being three years ago. Compared to previous years, the performances are much more competitive and impressive. Though I thought I was proficient in Chinese, this competition showed me that there are many others who speak the language very well."
The first-prize winners in each level will compete in China against winners from other countries and may receive scholarships to study there, the event organizer said.
"This competition not only promotes Chinese language skills but also enhances performance and cognitive abilities," she added.
"The event gave me the opportunity to showcase Chinese culture and traditions. In addition, I made friends with new people and witnessed their fantastic work," said Nyan Ye Hein, 18, who got first prize and best presentation award in the competition. ■
A contestant takes part in the "Chinese Bridge" Chinese Proficiency Competition in Yangon, Myanmar, June 8, 2024. Students from Chinese schools across Myanmar competed in the competition held here on Saturday. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)
A contestant takes part in the "Chinese Bridge" Chinese Proficiency Competition in Yangon, Myanmar, June 8, 2024. Students from Chinese schools across Myanmar competed in the competition held here on Saturday. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)
A contestant takes part in the "Chinese Bridge" Chinese Proficiency Competition in Yangon, Myanmar, June 8, 2024. Students from Chinese schools across Myanmar competed in the competition held here on Saturday. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)
Participants attend the "Chinese Bridge" Chinese Proficiency Competition in Yangon, Myanmar, June 8, 2024. Students from Chinese schools across Myanmar competed in the competition held here on Saturday. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)
Contestants take part in the "Chinese Bridge" Chinese Proficiency Competition in Yangon, Myanmar, June 8, 2024. Students from Chinese schools across Myanmar competed in the competition held here on Saturday. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)