Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, holds talks with Cambodian Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Sok Chenda Sophea (R) in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, April 21, 2024. (Photo by Sovannara/Xinhua)
PHNOM PENH, April 21 (Xinhua) -- China is willing to work with Cambodia to promote greater development in building the China-Cambodia community with a shared future, visiting Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said here on Sunday.
Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks when holding talks with Cambodian Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Sok Chenda Sophea.
Wang said China is willing to work with Cambodia to deepen strategic mutual trust, strengthen unity and cooperation, consolidate the foundation of mutual benefit, and promote greater development in building the China-Cambodia community with a shared future.
Faced with a complex international environment, China and Cambodia should strengthen high-level strategic guidance and steer the construction of the China-Cambodia community with a shared future in the right direction, the foreign minister said.
The two sides should deepen practical cooperation in various fields, enhance unity and cooperation, promote close people-to-people exchanges and strengthen multilateral coordination and cooperation, he noted.
China is willing to work with Cambodia to enhance strategic synergy and comprehensively promote cooperation in six major fields of politics, production capacity, agriculture, energy, security and people-to-people exchanges, Wang said.
China and Cambodia should seize the opportunity of the 2024 China-Cambodia People-to-People Exchange Year to enhance friendly feelings between the peoples and solidify the social foundation of bilateral relations; jointly combat illegal activities such as online gambling, telecommunications fraud, and human trafficking, and thoroughly eradicate related criminal gangs; jointly promote the high-quality development of China-ASEAN relations, advance Lancang-Mekong cooperation, and firmly steer East Asian cooperation in the right direction, Wang said.
For his part, Sok Chenda Sophea said Cambodia firmly adheres to the one-China policy and is committed to advancing friendly cooperation with China.
Cambodia is looking forward to more cooperation projects with China and welcomes more Chinese companies to invest in the Southeast Asian country, he said.
Cambodia opposes external forces creating disturbances in the region and is willing to unite and cooperate with China to ensure the healthy development of East Asian cooperation and jointly safeguard regional peace and stability, Sok Chenda Sophea said. ■