by Raheela Nazir
ISLAMABAD, March 6 (Xinhua) -- As the contemporary world is witnessing profound changes in the international landscape, the Global Security Initiative (GSI) proposed by China has provided a solution to complex security challenges, promoting world peace and stability, said Pakistani experts at a seminar on Tuesday.
The initiative focuses on dialogue over confrontation, partnership over alliance, and win-win over zero-sum, reflecting China's commitment towards ensuring global security, said the experts and officials at the seminar organized by the Institute of Strategic Studies Islamabad (ISSI), an Islamabad-based think tank.
Speaking on the occasion, Mushahid Hussain Syed, a senator and chairman of the Pakistani senate's defense committee, said that the GSI reflects the strategic thought of China, which is derived from various sources and aspects of China's national experiences.
"The initiative is based on China's vision of common destiny, the concept of indivisible security, UN Charter, international law and five principles of peaceful co-existence, which is in contrast with the cold war, zero-sum mindset," the chairman said.
Highlighting that the future belongs to connectivity and regionalism, and not the Cold War, Syed said that the rise of multi-polarity necessitated a multilateral approach to global security issues, and initiatives such as GSI are laudable.
Talking about Pakistan's abiding friendship with China, he said that China has always helped the South Asian country during challenging times, describing China as Pakistan's closest friend and partner.
Sohail Mahmood, former foreign secretary of Pakistan and director general of the ISSI, said that in the backdrop of recent global and regional developments, China-proposed initiatives including the GSI, the Global Development Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative are envisaged to serve as the building blocks for a world aspired to be peaceful, prosperous and harmonious.
"These initiatives not only indicate the depth of China's vision as part of its philosophy of building a community with a shared future for mankind, but also illustrate China's readiness to engage globally in three pivotal domains for humanity, which is development, security, and civilization," Mahmood said.
He added that the GSI embodied China's commitment to global peace and development and reflects an entirely different paradigm, placing premium on mutual respect and mutual benefit and seeking win-win outcomes.
In order to understand GSI, it is important to understand the strategic culture and thought of China, which is different from Western countries, said Muhammad Samrez Salik, former director general of the Institute for Strategic Studies Research and Analysis.
"Chinese strategic thought is based on benevolence and humane power, acceptance of others, and non-aggression which sets it apart from the Western thought," he said, adding that China's historic economic and social achievements have set a remarkable example for countries around the globe to learn from. ■