by Chen Dongshu, Lin Bifeng
COLOMBO, Sept. 3 (Xinhua) -- Madhawa Kumara, a 39-year-old policeman from the rescue division of Sri Lanka Police, received a one-week water rescue training course in Zhaotong, China's Southwest Yunnan province from Aug. 27 to Sept. 2.
"This course is really practical and useful because we have many water-related disasters in Sri Lanka, and the knowledge and skills we learned in Zhaotong will help us a lot in future rescue missions," said Kumara.
Organized by th fire and rescue bureau of Yunnan and Zhaotong's local government, this foreign aid training program, was participated by 20 trainees from the Prime Minister's Office, Police Department, Life Saving, Disaster Management Center, Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs, and Hotel Association in Sri Lanka.
It imparted China's advanced water rescue techniques, helping improve the rescue ability in this tropical island nation where flood-related issues frequently happen.
The training course utilized a simulated swift-water training facility and 34 rescue subjects, such as water rescue equipment demonstration and donning, water entry training, swift-water escape techniques, and vehicle water accident rescue.
The trainees learned and mastered scientific rescue concepts and practical rescue techniques and skills, significantly enhancing the operational effectiveness of water rescue operations in one week.
"What impressed me most is rowing and boat self-rescue techniques, since as a member of Sri Lanka Navy, I often participate in water rescue missions during flood disasters, so the skills are very important and meaningful to us," said Randil Gayantha, a senior staff officer of Sri Lanka Navy.
During the training course, there was also a variety of Chinese cultural activities, including learning Tai Chi, watching Chinese films and exploring the urban landscape, which showcased China's latest development achievements and unique cultural charm.
"This event also fostered our interest and love for Chinese culture, which can also strengthen the friendship between Sri Lanka and China," said Dulan Wickramaarachchi, development officer of the Prime Minister's Office in Sri Lanka.
Wickramaarachchi added that Sri Lanka attracts numerous visitors annually who engage in diving, surfing and other beach activities, making rescue operations pervasive. This training is an excellent opportunity to enhance Sri Lanka's water rescue capabilities.
"We are particularly grateful to our Chinese friends for their continued support and assistance," Wickramaarachchi said. ■