YANGON, May 11 (Xinhua) -- Phone Sin Kyal, 18, said that mastering Chinese language has several benefits such as understanding Chinese culture well and making friends with native Chinese speakers.
"Since Chinese is one of the most widely used languages globally, learning it has no harm," he said.
In the commercial city of Yangon, Myanmar on Friday, China's CITIC, in cooperation with the China Cultural Center in Yangon and other organizations, launched a Chinese language training project for local people.
Several Chinese language courses of the project will be conducted at the China Cultural Center in Yangon, according to CITIC Myanmar.
Those language courses aim to improve the vocational skills of local people, enhancing their competency for future employment opportunities, especially at Chinese companies in Myanmar, CITIC Myanmar said.
"I've been studying Chinese for six months and enrolled in an intermediate class here," Phone Sin Kyal said, adding that he hopes to go to China to learn more about the culture and lifestyle.
"I enjoy Chinese festivals like the Spring Festival," said the Chinese learner, whose grandparents are Chinese.
Zun Pwint Phyu, 26, is another student enrolled in a course of the project. She said that she started learning Chinese 10 months ago and found herself drawn to Chinese culture now.
"At home, I enjoy watching Chinese movies. I developed an interest in Chinese after graduating from university," she admitted.
Quitting her job to be a full-time Chinese learner, she is still unsure whether to pursue a career as an engineer using Chinese or become a Chinese teacher after getting a master's degree in China.
Khin Thandar Kyaw, a 22-year-old student, told Xinhua, "I joined the class here because I'm keen on learning both the Chinese language and culture."
"I've been learning Chinese for about six months now and hope to become a Chinese language teacher once I master it," she said.
Her interest in Chinese culture grew after reading books from siblings who studied in China, and hopes to study there in the future.
Offering free Chinese language courses is highly beneficial, especially for local people with limited financial resources, she added.
Ei Swe Zin, a 29-year-old Chinese teacher, also said that offering free Chinese language courses could help people find future employment opportunities.
She explained that learning Chinese in Myanmar could help get the jobs such as interpreters for Chinese companies, or even become Chinese teachers after studying in China.
U Kyaw Kyaw Soe, manager of the training project, said that nearly 70 students were enrolling in the three-month courses. ■