Chinese Ambassador to Nepal Chen Song (3rd R) and chairman of the board of directors of the B.P. Koirala Memorial Cancer Hospital Bijay Rai Neupane (2nd L) inaugurate the first international traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) rehabilitation and treatment center in Nepal, Aug. 4, 2024.
This international TCM rehabilitation and treatment center, the first of its kind in Nepal, was inaugurated here on Sunday. (Photo by Sulav Shrestha/Xinhua)
KATHMANDU, Aug. 5 (Xinhua) -- An international traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) rehabilitation and treatment center, the first of its kind in Nepal, was inaugurated here on Sunday.
The center located at the B.P. Koirala Memorial Cancer Hospital in Bharatpur in central-southern Nepal, was put into operation on July 26.
Addressing the inauguration ceremony, Chinese Ambassador to Nepal Chen Song recalled the popularity of acupuncture treatment with local people, with one patient with lumbar problem, who could only bend his waist to 30 degrees, being able to hold his back upright to 90 degrees after treatment by a TCM doctor.
In the past 25 years, over 250 Chinese medical teams' doctors have been sent to the memorial cancer hospital to help improve the Nepali people's health along with Nepali doctors, Chen noted.
The TCM rehabilitation and treatment center is being operated by TCM doctors and physiotherapists from the memorial cancer hospital.
Chinese medical teams have been sent in turn to the hospital built with China's aid ever since it was handed over to the Nepali side in December 1998.
Bijay Rai Neupane, chairman of the hospital's board of directors, voiced his appreciation of the support provided by China over the years, including the supply of manpower, the donation of medical equipment and medicines, and the training of doctors and technicians.
Neurological and orthopedic rehabilitation and pain treatment are offered at the rehabilitation and treatment center, with healing techniques including acupuncture, massage, gua sha, cupping and TCM applied, along with medium- and low-frequency pulse therapy, infrared therapy, TCM iontophoresis treatment and rehabilitation training through professional equipment.
Over the years, TCM doctors at the memorial cancer hospital have been popular with local patients suffering from hemiplegia, facial paralysis and neck, shoulder, waist and leg pains. ■
Doctors treat a patient at the international traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) rehabilitation and treatment center in Nepal, July 26, 2024.
This international TCM rehabilitation and treatment center, the first of its kind in Nepal, was inaugurated here on Sunday. (Chinese Medical Team to Nepal/Handout via Xinhua)