Chinese Vice President Han Zheng meets with Indonesia's new President Prabowo Subianto in Jakarta, Indonesia, Oct. 20, 2024. Visiting Chinese Vice President Han Zheng, as President Xi Jinping's special representative, attended the inauguration of Indonesia's new President Prabowo Subianto here on Sunday and held talks with him. (Xinhua/Rao Aimin)
JAKARTA, Oct. 21 (Xinhua) -- Visiting Chinese Vice President Han Zheng, as President Xi Jinping's special representative, attended the inauguration of Indonesia's new President Prabowo Subianto here on Sunday and held talks with him.
Han noted that President Prabowo's visit to China right after his election victory demonstrated his deep affection and profound friendship toward China and his commitment to advancing China-Indonesia relations.
Han pointed out that President Prabowo emphasized key priorities such as food security and poverty reduction in his inaugural address, aligning closely with the people-centered development approach proposed by President Xi.
Han affirmed China's support for President Prabowo and his new government, expressing confidence that Indonesia, under Prabowo's leadership, will achieve further progress in national development.
China is willing to work with Indonesia to follow the strategic guidance of the two heads of state, push the building of the China-Indonesia community with a shared future to a new level, and contribute to maintaining regional peace and stability while promoting world development and prosperity, Han said.
Han also put forward three proposals for the next phase of China-Indonesia relations. First, to strengthen high-level strategic mutual trust and continue mutual support on each other's core interests and major concerns. Second, to deepen comprehensive, mutually beneficial cooperation to benefit more people of the two countries. Third, to enhance international collaboration to promote the development of global governance in a more just and reasonable direction.
President Prabowo reiterated that China, as a major country in the world, is a key partner for Indonesia. He said the new Indonesian government attaches great importance to developing relations with China and will continue Joko Widodo's friendly policy toward China.
Indonesia is willing to further deepen mutual support and mutually beneficial cooperation between the two sides, strengthen coordination on international and regional affairs, and promote greater development of bilateral relations, he said. ■