PHNOM PENH, March 15 (Xinhua) -- Meng Meymey, an 18-year-old Cambodian student, has chosen to study at the Cambodia-China University of Technology and Science, showing her confidence that the university will offer a high-quality education with widely recognized degrees.
The university began its first undergraduate program on Friday after it was inaugurated last December, attracting a high number of student enrollments.
Some 160 students registered for bachelor's degree courses, and 420 others will be trained with the commission from enterprises. All of them will learn Chinese language and pursue majors, according to the school's information.
Meymey, who started her first-year study in the major of e-commerce, said the school is providing opportunities to young talents to receive a high level of tertiary education in technology and science.
"At this university, we can study both Chinese language and professional skills, and in the second or third year, we can have opportunities to study in China," she told Xinhua.
"When we graduate, we will get a dual degree issued by the ministries of education of China and Cambodia," she added.
Soth Vannak, a first-year student in the major of modern logistics management at the university, said students will specialize in Chinese proficiency and a technical skill when they graduate.
"This university has a lot of professional and capable lecturers, both local and foreign ones," he told Xinhua. "When I graduate, I want to work in technology related to logistics and cross-border business management."
Zhou Hui, teaching quality supervisor and lecturer of computer networking technology at the university, said quality is the school's top priority, assuring that students will be capable enough when they graduate.
"All of our faculty members hold postgraduate degrees or higher, with the majority being dispatched from China with rich teaching experience," she told Xinhua.
"Additionally, we have many corporate partners that offer internships for our students. I believe that after graduating from this university, students will be able to fully meet the needs of enterprises," Zhou added.
Touch Visalsok, secretary of state at Cambodia's Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, said the university will play an important role in producing technical talents for Cambodia's socioeconomic development.
"It's essential for the university to focus on quality in order to train Cambodian talents for the development of industries, transport infrastructure, electricity, energy, production, and tourism, among others," he said during the launching event of the school's first undergraduate program.
The university was jointly established by the Federation of Khmer-Chinese in Cambodia and Nanjing Vocational University of Industry Technology.
Teng Lay, Cambodian representative of the board of directors of the university, said the university offers courses in six majors: new energy power generation engineering technology, automobile service engineering technology, network engineering technology, e-commerce, modern logistics management, and tourism management.
"The university is committed to cultivating high-quality technical talents who will become key contributors to Cambodia's socioeconomic development," he said. "Students can get a dual degree recognized by Cambodia and China."
Campus of the Phnom Penh-based university also includes a garden and a canteen. ■