An aerial drone photo taken on April 9, 2024 shows the Lane Xang (L) passenger train and the Fuxing bullet train (R) at Mohan port in southwest China's Yunnan Province. A year ago, the China-Laos Railway launched its international passenger service, with one pair of trains running between Kunming in China and Vientiane in Laos.
Within the past year, the international service of the China-Laos Railway transported 180,000 cross-border passengers from 87 countries and regions, according to China State Railway Group Co., Ltd.
The China-Laos Railway, a landmark project of high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, began operations in December 2021. The 1,035-km railway connects China's Kunming with Vientiane in Laos. (Xinhua)
KUNMING, April 13 (Xinhua) -- As of Saturday, the China-Laos Railway has handled over 180,000 cross-border passenger trips since its international passenger service opened a year ago, according to the Mohan checkpoint on China's border with Laos in southwest China's Yunnan.
A total of 738 international passenger trains have been operated during the period, facilitating the smooth entry and exit of 183,000 passengers from 87 countries and regions, as noted by the checkpoint.
The most frequent foreign passengers are from Laos, Thailand, Singapore and Malaysia, mainly traveling for tourism, visiting family and friends, and business purposes.
As a landmark project of high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, the 1,035-km China-Laos Railway connects Kunming, the capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province, with the Laotian capital Vientiane. ■
An international passenger train from Kunming of China to Vientiane of Laos arrives at Mohan port in southwest China's Yunnan Province, April 9, 2024. A year ago, the China-Laos Railway launched its international passenger service, with one pair of trains running between Kunming in China and Vientiane in Laos.
Within the past year, the international service of the China-Laos Railway transported 180,000 cross-border passengers from 87 countries and regions, according to China State Railway Group Co., Ltd.
The China-Laos Railway, a landmark project of high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, began operations in December 2021. The 1,035-km railway connects China's Kunming with Vientiane in Laos. (Xinhua)
 