U Kyaw Htay, director of the Information and Public Relations Department of Myanmar's Ministry of Information, speaks at the launching event of the ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) report of China-Myanmar Oil and Gas Pipeline Project in Yangon, Myanmar, Dec. 17, 2024. (Xinhua/Myo Kyaw Soe)
YANGON, Dec. 17 (Xinhua) -- An event to launch the first ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) report of the China-Myanmar Oil and Gas Pipeline Project was held here on Tuesday.
During the event, U Kyaw Htay, director of the Information and Public Relations Department of Myanmar's Ministry of Information, spoke highly of the China-Myanmar Oil and Gas Pipeline Project and praised the project's positive contribution to Myanmar's social development.
He pointed out that the China-Myanmar Oil and Gas Pipeline Project is not only an important infrastructure construction project, but also a model project for corporate social responsibility, demonstrating the deep "Paukphaw" (fraternal) friendship and mutually beneficial cooperation between China and Myanmar.
Li Haiping, vice president of Southeast Asia Crude Oil Pipeline Co., Ltd. and Southeast Asia Gas Pipeline Co., Ltd., said that the China-Myanmar Oil and Gas Pipeline Project is committed to promoting prosperity and development in the areas along the route and bringing tangible benefits to local people.
The ESG report reviews the social responsibilities and achievements of Southeast Asia Crude Oil Pipeline Co., Ltd. and Southeast Asia Gas Pipeline Co., Ltd. in Myanmar since the start of the project from five aspects: lawful management, value creation, green development, employee welfare, and social responsibility. ■
Li Haiping, vice president of Southeast Asia Crude Oil Pipeline Co., Ltd. and Southeast Asia Gas Pipeline Co., Ltd., speaks at the launching event of the ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) report of China-Myanmar Oil and Gas Pipeline Project in Yangon, Myanmar, Dec. 17, 2024. (Xinhua/Myo Kyaw Soe)