Passengers check in at the Siem Reap Angkor International Airport in Siem Reap province, Cambodia on Oct. 16, 2024. The Chinese-invested Siem Reap Angkor International Airport (SAI) has handled more than 14,000 flights with 1.3 million passengers in the first year of its operation, the airport operator said on Wednesday. (Photo by Sao Khuth/Xinhua)
SIEM REAP, Cambodia, Oct. 16 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese-invested Siem Reap Angkor International Airport (SAI) has handled more than 14,000 flights with 1.3 million passengers in the first year of its operation, the airport operator said on Wednesday.
The statistics were released while the SAI marked the first anniversary of its operation.
Speaking during the celebration of the airport's first anniversary, Mao Havannall, minister in charge of Cambodia's State Secretariat of Civil Aviation, praised the airport operator for its quality service, offering good new experience to passengers, and positively contributing to socio-economic development, national heritage protection and green development.
"The SAI has not only contributed to the development of the civil aviation industry in Cambodia, but also helped boost the nation's economic growth and tourism, as well as attract investment," he said.
Havannall said the SAI was the fruit of Cambodia-China close cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).
He added that the BRI has helped accelerate Cambodia's development in a number of key areas, including economy, trade, industry, tourism, agriculture, transportation and logistics, culture, and people-to-people exchanges.
The minister is confident that the SAI will help Siem Reap province, home to the UNESCO-listed Angkor Archaeological Park, to achieve its goal of attracting 7.5 million international tourists in 2035.
The SAI was invested by the Angkor International Airport Investment (Cambodia) Co., Ltd., an affiliate of China's Yunnan Investment Holdings Ltd..
Liu Minglin, vice chairman of Yunnan Investment Holdings Ltd., said the airport ran its business smoothly in the first year of operation.
"As a landmark project under the BRI cooperation between China and Cambodia, the SAI has drawn much attention," he said.
Liu said the company is optimistic about the strong momentum and potential of Cambodia's economic development.
"We will further explore investment opportunities in Cambodia in cultural tourism, park development, aviation logistics, and renewable energy," he said.
With a 3,600-meter-long runway, the SAI is currently Cambodia's biggest airport and is the main gateway to the Angkor Archaeological Park.
Covering a parcel of 700 hectares, the SAI is located in Sotr Nikum district, about 40 km from the Angkor Archaeological Park and 50 km from the Siem Reap provincial town.
Cambodia's State Secretariat of Civil Aviation's Undersecretary of State and Spokesperson Sinn Chanserey Vutha said within a year of its operation, this 4E-level international airport has strengthened and expanded its capacity in line with the government's policy.
"It has enhanced Cambodia's image on the international arena," he told Xinhua. "The airport at this new location has reduced the maximum impact on social environment and national heritage."
Chanserey Vutha said the SAI is capable of accommodating the landing of almost all kinds of aircraft from around the world.
"We hope that in the future, there will be more flights and passengers coming to this airport," he said.
Kim Phally, chairman of the Tourist Transport Association for the SAI, said the airport has helped revitalize the pandemic-hit tourism industry.
"It has not only boosted the growth of economy and tourism in Siem Reap province, but also generated a lot of jobs for locals, significantly contributing to improving their livelihoods," he told Xinhua. ■
A plane gets a water cannon salute at the Siem Reap Angkor International Airport in Siem Reap province, Cambodia on Oct. 16, 2024. The Chinese-invested Siem Reap Angkor International Airport (SAI) has handled more than 14,000 flights with 1.3 million passengers in the first year of its operation, the airport operator said on Wednesday. (Photo by Sao Khuth/Xinhua)
Passengers queue up to check in at the Siem Reap Angkor International Airport in Siem Reap province, Cambodia on Oct. 16, 2024. The Chinese-invested Siem Reap Angkor International Airport (SAI) has handled more than 14,000 flights with 1.3 million passengers in the first year of its operation, the airport operator said on Wednesday. (Photo by Sao Khuth/Xinhua)
A passenger plane arrives at the Siem Reap Angkor International Airport in Siem Reap province, Cambodia on Oct. 16, 2024. The Chinese-invested Siem Reap Angkor International Airport (SAI) has handled more than 14,000 flights with 1.3 million passengers in the first year of its operation, the airport operator said on Wednesday. (Photo by Sao Khuth/Xinhua)