by Misbah Saba Malik
GWADAR, Pakistan, Sept. 18 (Xinhua) -- As the descent of night wrapped the sun in its shadow and the full, bright moon emerged from the corner of the sky, the cool light bathed the land, uniting the sky and earth in tranquility, here in Pakistan's southwest Balochistan province.
Against this backdrop, Pakistani students and Chinese nationals gathered to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival, a cherished tradition symbolizing family reunion at the China Business Center in the port city of Gwadar.
Approximately 20 students from various disciplines at the China-donated Pakistan-China Technical and Vocational Institute (PCTVI), including Chinese, English, maritime technology, tourism, and hospitality, attended the celebration at the event on the eve of the mid-autumn day was filled with warmth, music, and the shared joy of the festival.
Talking to Xinhua, one of the students, Aliza Jamil, who is learning Chinese language and culture, said, "When I first studied the legend associated with the Mid-Autumn Festival, it seemed like a dreamy tale to me, but at the same time, I felt the warmth and value of family reunion in it."
Jamil added that she never imagined she would one day be celebrating the festival with Chinese nationals, sharing joy and having a sense of closeness, just like family.
The Pakistani students and Chinese nationals also sang songs in their native languages, welcoming the moon and marking the festival together with joy and unity.
Another student, Farah Shaukat Ali, shared her long-standing interest in Chinese language and culture since childhood.
"When Chinese language classes started at PCTVI, I seized the opportunity to fulfill my childhood dream," said the 20-year-old who also actively participated in the festival.
Both Jamil and Ali said the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) opened doors for women in Gwadar.
"Gwadar is a small city where career and education opportunities for women were very limited. We are elated that CPEC is giving us a chance to break barriers, empowering us through education and employment opportunities at PCTVI," Ali added.
For the students, the Chinese nationals working in Gwadar are family. "As they are working thousands of miles away from home, we visited them today to remind them that we are here as their loving brothers and sisters. They can celebrate the day with us," said the student.
As the evening drew to a close, the students reflected on the meaningful connections between Pakistan and China that have blossomed not only through economic partnerships but also through cultural and personal bonds. The celebration was a powerful reminder of the unity and friendship between the two nations.
Launched in 2013, the CPEC, a flagship project of the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative, is a corridor linking the Gwadar Port in southwest Pakistan's Balochistan province with Kashgar in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, which highlights energy, transport, and industrial cooperation in the first phase, while in the new phase expands to fields of agriculture and livelihood, among others. ■