Chinese Ambassador to Brunei Xiao Jianguo (C) and other participants display a piece of Chinese calligraphy work at the fifth International Chinese Calligraphy Grand Exhibition in Bandar Seri Begawan, capital of Brunei, Nov. 8, 2024. The fifth International Chinese Calligraphy Grand Exhibition opened in Brunei on Friday, featuring over 300 Chinese calligraphy works by artists from around the world.(Photo by Wong Chee Peng/Xinhua)
BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN, Nov. 8 (Xinhua) -- The fifth International Chinese Calligraphy Grand Exhibition opened in Brunei on Friday, featuring over 300 Chinese calligraphy works by artists from around the world.
Held in Bandar Seri Begawan, the capital of Brunei, the event also attracted nearly 100 calligraphers who will engage in in-depth exchanges on Chinese calligraphy and culture during the three-day exhibition.
Chinese Ambassador to Brunei Xiao Jianguo said in his opening remarks: "The calligraphy exhibition showcases the shared aspiration of overseas Chinese artists to inherit and pass on Chinese culture and promote mutual learning among civilizations, as well as their heartfelt wishes for the prosperity of the nation and the happiness and well-being of the people."
Richard Jong Ching Sheng, president of the Chinese Calligraphy and Chinese Painting Cultural Society in Brunei, said that the association is committed to the promotion and inheritance of Chinese calligraphy culture. "Our passion for calligraphy has never wavered," Jong said. ■
A participant writes Chinese calligraphy at the fifth International Chinese Calligraphy Grand Exhibition in Bandar Seri Begawan, capital of Brunei, Nov. 8, 2024.
The fifth International Chinese Calligraphy Grand Exhibition opened in Brunei on Friday, featuring over 300 Chinese calligraphy works by artists from around the world.
Held in Bandar Seri Begawan, the capital of Brunei, the event also attracted nearly 100 calligraphers who will engage in in-depth exchanges on Chinese calligraphy and culture during the three-day exhibition. (Photo by Wong Chee Peng/Xinhua)