PHNOM PENH, Oct. 12 (Xinhua) -- An overseas promotional event for ice and snow tourism in northeast China's Heilongjiang province was held here in the capital of Cambodia on Saturday, inviting local visitors to experience the province's picturesque wintry wonderland.
Heilongjiang province has abundant ice-and-snow resources, making it a popular destination for winter tourism in China, attracting numerous tourists from home and abroad during Chinese New Year holidays.
Speaking at the event, Ny Phaly, secretary of state of Cambodia's Ministry of Tourism, said the event was vital to further enhance cultural ties, tourism, and people-to-people exchanges between Cambodia and China.
He added that tourism resources of Heilongjiang province and Cambodia are quite different but complementary, and the event was a good opportunity for both sides to boost cooperation.
"I would like to encourage Cambodian people to spend their holidays in Heilongjiang province, and also wish to invite tourists from Heilongjiang province to explore Cambodia," Phaly said.
The official also urged tour operators of the two sides to work together closely to arrange tour packages for both tourism destinations.
Hosted by the Heilongjiang Provincial Department of Culture and Tourism and co-organized by the Cambodia-China Journalists Association and Tour Around (Global) Co., Ltd., the event drew more than 200 participants.
He Jing, director of the Heilongjiang Provincial Department of Culture and Tourism, said the event was aimed at promoting cultural exchanges and Heilongjiang's enchanting ice and snow tourism resources to Cambodian tourists.
At the event, promotional videos and presentations were introduced, vividly showcasing the province's breathtaking natural landscapes, inspiring ice and snow wonders and rich cultural heritage.
The immersive experience took attendees on a virtual journey through Heilongjiang's winter magic.
Highlights included the dazzling Harbin Ice and Snow World, the vast Greater Khingan Mountains, the towering ice waterfalls of Jingpo Lake, the mystical auroras of Mohe, and the first rays of sunlight at Fuyuan, all of which impressed the audience most.
Chhay Sivlin, president of the Cambodia Association of Travel Agents, said that as 2024 marked the Cambodia-China people-to-people exchange year, the event was crucial to boost mutual exchanges in areas like tourism and culture.
She added that the event unfolded the beauty of Heilongjiang's ice and snow culture and tourism to Cambodian people, inspiring them to travel to the province to experience the unique winter landscapes in person.
"This event is vital to introduce Cambodian tourists to a new tourism destination, where they can play with ice and snow," she told Xinhua.
"Cambodian tourists should spend their holidays in Heilongjiang for ice and snow play because in Cambodia, the weather is hot most of the time, and we don't have snow," she added.
Sivlin said as Heilongjiang is not very far away from Cambodia, visiting the province will save tourists both time and money.
"They don't need to spend much money for expensive places. In China, the expense is still cheaper than that of European countries, and we can enjoy authentic ice and snow as those in Europe," she said.
On Friday, Heilongjiang province launched its first overseas tourism cooperation and promotion center in Phnom Penh, aiming to showcase Heilongjiang's tourism profile in Cambodia and Southeast Asia. ■