KUALA LUMPUR, Dec. 2 (Xinhua) -- Malaysia seeks a fair and equitable energy transition through cooperation with China as the country not only has proven capabilities in the new energy sector but is also a friendly and trusted partner, Malaysia's Deputy Prime Minister Fadillah Yusof said here on Monday.
China has demonstrated not only an ability to develop such technologies but also has been able to rapidly adopt and integrate them on a mass scale, Fadillah said in his remarks at the fifth World Association Presidents' Conference (WAPC).
"I have been rather impressed by China's efforts in advancing its energy transition within the framework of its new economic development. These efforts offer Malaysia a chance to learn and adopt best practices for a fair and equitable energy transition," said Fadillah, who is also the minister of energy transition and water transformation.
Meanwhile, Minister of the Chinese Embassy in Malaysia Zheng Xuefang said China will continue to advocate liberalization and facilitation of trade and investment, and economic globalization based on inclusiveness and universal benefits even as some countries seek to pursue unilateralism and protectionism.
"Openness is the only way to achieving prosperity and development. We should oppose unilateralism and protectionism actively and boldly, strengthen infrastructure connectivity, intensify industrial and supply chain resilience, and advance liberalization and facilitation of trade and investment," he said.
For his part, Malaysian Chinese Association President and Chairman of the Fifth WAPC Wee Ka Siong said China, having emphasized trade, cooperation and infrastructure development with Malaysia, has built a strong foundation of trust not only at the government-to-government level but also at the people-to-people level.
"By strengthening our ties with China, we can attract investments, integrate ourselves further into global supply chains, and create win-win outcomes for both nations," he added.
With the theme "Promote Trade Liberalization and Advance Economic Globalization," the Fifth WAPC was co-organized by the Malaysian Chinese Association, the Malaysia-China Friendship Association and the China Enterprises Chamber of Commerce in Malaysia, gathering more than 700 leaders of associations and entrepreneurs from around the world. ■