Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-07-03 21:51:30
Chinese President Xi Jinping and Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev jointly meet with the press following their talks at the presidential palace in Astana, Kazakhstan, July 3, 2024. (Xinhua/Zhai Jianlan)
ASTANA, July 3 (Xinhua) -- China and Kazakhstan are companions on the path to modernization, said Chinese President Xi Jinping here Wednesday when jointly meeting the press with Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev.
Noting his talks with Tokayev were amicable, friendly and fruitful, Xi said he and Tokayev signed a joint statement between the two countries.
Xi said he and Tokayev agree that both China and Kazakhstan are at a critical stage of development and revitalization.
The two sides will continue to carry forward the fine tradition of mutual support, deepen political mutual trust, promote the synergy of development strategies, and be solid supporters that can be relied on and trusted by each other, Xi said.
Xi said China and Kazakhstan have set a new goal of doubling two-way trade at an early date.
The two sides agreed to continuously deepen cooperation in such traditional areas as economy, trade, investment, production capacity, interconnectivity and energy, Xi said.
The two sides will also jointly foster new growth points for cooperation in critical minerals, new energy, scientific and technological innovation, aerospace, digital economy and other fields, Xi said.
Xi said the Chinese side will hold China tourism year in Kazakhstan in 2025.
The Chinese side has also decided to open the second Luban Workshop in the Central Asian country, he said, adding that the two sides will expand cooperation in such fields as media, think tanks, as well as films and television, and encourage more sistership among provinces and cities of the two countries.
The two sides have pledged to continue working closely in international affairs and strengthen coordination and cooperation within the framework of the United Nations, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the China-Central Asia mechanism as well as other multilateral frameworks, he said.
Xi said that China and Kazakhstan have agreed to jointly implement the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative, three key initiatives proposed by China.
China supports Kazakhstan in joining BRICS cooperation mechanism, playing the role of a "middle power" on the international stage and making its due contribution to global governance, Xi said.
For his part, Tokayev said that Xi's visit has special historical significance and will be a new starting point to promote the Kazakhstan-China relations to a higher level.
China is a friendly neighbor and a permanent comprehensive strategic partner of Kazakhstan, Tokayev said, adding that the Kazakhstan-China relations have always been based on mutual respect and trust and there are no unresolved issues between the two countries.
In history, China has never harmed Kazakhstan's interests, and the friendship between the two peoples is unbreakable and has been passed down from generation to generation, Tokayev said.
China is Kazakhstan's largest trading partner and the most important foreign investor country, and the investment and cooperation of Chinese enterprises have effectively promoted the national development of Kazakhstan, Tokayev said.
Stressing Kazakhstan's commitment to continuously strengthening all-round friendly and mutually beneficial cooperation with China, Tokayev said the country welcomes more Chinese companies to invest in Kazakhstan and will provide all necessary and favorable conditions for them.
Upholding the principles of peaceful diplomacy, Kazakhstan and China share similar positions on many international and regional issues, said Tokayev, adding that Kazakhstan is ready to enhance communication and collaboration with China within multilateral frameworks like the China-Central Asia mechanism, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the United Nations, among others.
Friendship is the common asset of Kazakhstan and China, which is more precious than gold, Tokayev said. Kazakhstan looks forward to making joint efforts with China to achieve greater accomplishments in Kazakhstan-China relations in a new "golden 30 years." ■