Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and Chinese president, meets with Luong Cuong, member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV) Central Committee and permanent member of the CPV Central Committee Secretariat, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 11, 2024. (Xinhua/Ding Lin)
BEIJING, Oct. 11 (Xinhua) -- Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and Chinese president, met with Luong Cuong, member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV) Central Committee and permanent member of the CPV Central Committee Secretariat, in Beijing on Friday.
Xi pointed out that adhering to the leadership of the communist party and the socialist system constitutes the most essential feature of China and Vietnam, and serves as the most solid political foundation for developing bilateral relations.
Noting that China takes Vietnam as a priority in its neighborhood diplomacy, Xi said China is ready to work with Vietnam to take the lead in deepening high-level mutually beneficial cooperation, safeguarding international fairness and justice, and promoting the cause of human progress, and jointly foster a China-Vietnam community with a shared future that carries strategic significance.
Xi stressed that as changes unseen in a century are unfolding at an accelerated pace, China and Vietnam should adhere to the correct political direction, view China-Vietnam relations from a strategic height, and ensure the sustained, correctly oriented development of bilateral ties.
He urged China and Vietnam to strengthen their exchange of thoughts and ideas, make better use of institutionalized platforms such as theoretical discussions and cadre training, and enhance communication and the exchange of party and state governance experience. The two countries should also tap into cooperation potential further, and spare no effort to promote the synergy of development strategies and interconnectivity, he added.
On fostering friendship between peoples, Xi called on the two sides to take full advantage of the 75th anniversary of bilateral relations and the China-Vietnam Year of People-to-People Exchanges next year to bring greater recognition to the traditional friendship between the two countries and do more to improve their guidance of public opinion, so as to consolidate public support for the long-term development of bilateral relations.
Xi went on to say that China's efforts to further deepen reforms and promote a high-level opening-up will not only open up broader prospects for its own development, but also bring new impetus and opportunities to the development of Vietnam and other countries around the world.
China is ready to enhance cooperation with Vietnam to be good companions and partners on the path of reform and modernization, Xi said, expressing the belief that under the leadership of the CPV Central Committee headed by General Secretary To Lam, Vietnam will successfully complete the goals and tasks set by the 13th National Congress of the CPV.
Noting that Vietnam and China are socialist neighbors linked by the same mountains and rivers, Luong Cuong said that developing relations with China has always been the objective need, strategic choice and a top priority of Vietnam's overall diplomacy.
He said that Vietnam is willing to continue working with China to fully deliver on the important consensus reached in recent years by the two countries' top leaders, cement relations between the two parties and two countries, push for the further development of exchange and cooperation in various fields, better manage and resolve differences, and strive for new achievements in promoting the Vietnam-China comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership and the construction of a Vietnam-China community with a shared future. ■
Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and Chinese president, meets with Luong Cuong, member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV) Central Committee and permanent member of the CPV Central Committee Secretariat, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 11, 2024. (Xinhua/Ding Lin)