ISLAMABAD, Oct. 7 (Xinhua) -- Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari on Monday strongly condemned a terrorist attack on a Chinese national convoy in the country's southern port city of Karachi on Sunday night, saying the anti-state elements attempted to damage Pakistan's progress and prosperity.
Two Chinese nationals were killed and more than a dozen people injured, including a Chinese national and Pakistani security personnel, in an explosion that occurred on a road near Jinnah International Airport in Karachi, capital city of the country's south Sindh province, according to Pakistani government officials.
Expressing his deep grief over the killing of the Chinese nationals, the Pakistani president conveyed his condolences to the bereaved families and wished the injured a speedy recovery.
He said that effective actions must be taken against the perpetrators of the attack.
To mourn the death of the Chinese citizens, Pakistani Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif paid a special visit to the Chinese Embassy in Pakistan.
He said in a statement on Monday that an immediate investigation is underway to identify the perpetrators and bring them to justice, adding that Pakistan stands committed to safeguarding Chinese friends, and the country will leave no stone unturned to ensure their security and well-being.
Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs also issued a statement to condemn the attack, emphasizing that the deplorable act of terrorism is an attack not only on Pakistan but also on the enduring friendship between Pakistan and China.
"We remain resolute in bringing to justice those responsible for this cowardly attack...Pakistan's security and law enforcement agencies will spare no effort in apprehending the perpetrators and their facilitators. This barbaric act will not go unpunished," the ministry said in the statement.
Pakistan and China are close partners and iron brothers, united by a bond of mutual respect and shared destiny, said the foreign ministry, while reaffirming Pakistan's unwavering commitment to the safety and security of Chinese nationals, projects, and institutions in the country.
After the incident, Chief Minister of Sindh province Syed Murad Ali Shah paid a special visit to the Chinese Consulate General in Karachi to mourn the death of the Chinese citizens.
In addition, other senior Pakistani officials also strongly condemned the terrorist attack and expressed deep condolences over the death of the Chinese citizens.
Earlier on Monday morning, the Chinese Embassy in Pakistan said that the attack happened at about 11:00 p.m. local time on Sunday (1800 GMT) when the convoy from the Port Qasim Electric Power Company was attacked by the terrorists near Jinnah International Airport in Karachi.
The banned outfit Balochistan Liberation Army has claimed responsibility for the attack. ■