KUALA LUMPUR, Oct. 3 (Xinhua) -- Malaysia's participants at the 21st China-ASEAN Expo (CAEXPO) in south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region wrapped up a successful run at the trade show, pulling in 402.88 million ringgit (95.6 million U.S. dollars) in sales, a government agency announced on Thursday.
The Malaysia Pavilion involved the participation of 150 exhibitors for this edition of the trade show, meeting the continued robust demand for Malaysian products in the Chinese market and highlighting their sustained popularity among Chinese consumers, the Malaysia External Trade Development Corporation (MATRADE) said in a statement.
This year's edition is especially meaningful for the Malaysian side in light of the 50th anniversary of the establishment of China-Malaysia diplomatic relations, with the largest post-pandemic participation from the Malaysian side including 12 government ministries and agencies as well as four trade associations, the national trade promotion agency under the Ministry of Investment, Trade and Industry (MITI) said.
Key sectors represented included food and beverages, agricultural products, lifestyle, healthcare and wellness, as well as services such as logistics and talent management, the agency's deputy chief executive officer Abu Bakar Yusof said, noting that Malaysia aims to deepen economic and trade cooperation with China and other Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries, further strengthening its role in regional trade.
"By offering comprehensive trade promotion services, including market intelligence, networking opportunities, and financial assistance, MATRADE is empowering SMEs to capitalize on the vast potential of the Chinese market and compete on the international stage," he said.
Abu Bakar added that the agency will also be leading Malaysia's participation in the upcoming seventh China International Import Expo (CIIE) from Nov. 5 to 10 in Shanghai and the 19th China International Small and Medium Enterprises Fair (CISMEF) from Nov. 15 to 18 in Guangzhou, and will organize the Malaysia-China Summit (MCS 2024) which will run from Nov. 17 to 19 in Kuala Lumpur. ■