YANGON, Jan. 24 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese embassy in Myanmar on Thursday hosted Spring Festival celebrations in Yangon.
More than 1,000 people, including Chinese Ambassador to Myanmar Ma Jia, Myanmar's Deputy Prime Minister and Union Minister for the Ministry of Prime Minister's Office Tin Aung San as well as other senior Myanmar officials, envoys from many countries to Myanmar, overseas Chinese in Myanmar, representatives from overseas Chinese companies, and Chinese students in Myanmar, gathered together to celebrate the upcoming Chinese New Year.
Ma extended New Year greetings to all Chinese in Myanmar and the Myanmar people, saying that the Spring Festival symbolizes unity and prosperity, embodying the core Chinese cultural values of harmony and peace.
The Spring Festival is not just a Chinese celebration, but a global one, Ma said, adding about 20 countries recognize it as a public holiday.
In July 2024, Myanmar designated the Chinese Spring Festival a national public holiday, Ma noted.
Both the Chinese Spring Festival and the Myanmar Thingyan Festival have been inscribed as a UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage, demonstrating that cultural symbols of a nation play an important role in human civilization, she said.
"We look forward to the Year of the Snake bringing more hope and joy to the world, and greater blessings to both nations and the two peoples, advancing China-Myanmar friendship and cooperation to new heights," she said.
Tin Aung San said Myanmar and China share deep "Paukphaw" (fraternal) ties, and the construction of the community with a shared future continues to deepen.
He expressed gratitude to the Chinese government for its assistance and consistent support in facilitating the peace and national reconciliation process of Myanmar, hoping to further enhance mutually beneficial cooperation both at regional and international arenas.
At the event, participants enjoyed Spring Festival performances and were presented with a feast of Chinese food, including flower cakes and dumplings.
Nearly 40 booths were set up at the celebrations, displaying Chinese calligraphy, painting, porcelain, lacquer fans and paper cutting. ■