by Seun Sam
Joining the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) more than 10 years ago was a right decision made by the Cambodian government, as this global initiative has provided great benefits for Cambodia's socio-economic development.
As a developing country, Cambodia faces numerous challenges in its development, particularly the lack of capital to invest in infrastructure and connectivity projects, which are the key elements to support the country's economic and trade growth in the long run.
The BRI has assisted Cambodia in filling this gap as its projects have helped build essential infrastructure such as roads, bridges and airports that are the backbone of the Southeast Asian nation's economic growth.
BRI flagship projects like the Phnom Penh-Sihanoukville Expressway, the Sihanoukville Special Economy Zone and the Siem Reap Angkor International Airport have become the symbols of national pride and carry strategic importance for Cambodia.
These landmark projects are designed to boost connectivity, trade and tourism, thereby creating long-term economic benefits for Cambodia.
Under the leadership of Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Manet, Cambodia has launched the "Pentagonal Strategy," which aligns closely with the goals of the BRI.
The alignment with the BRI allows Cambodia to benefit from Chinese investments, technology and expertise, making it a win-win situation for both countries.
With more roads, bridges and facilities, Cambodia is paving the way for a brighter and more prosperous future.
Proposed by China in 2013, the BRI aims to build a trade and infrastructure network connecting Asia with Europe, Africa and beyond along the ancient trade routes.
So far, the BRI's mega-infrastructure projects in various countries, such as the Sihanoukville Special Economy Zone, the Phnom Penh-Sihanoukville Expressway and the Siem Reap Angkor International Airport in Cambodia, the China-Laos Railway, the Jakarta-Bandung High-Speed Railway in Indonesia, the East Coast Rail Link in Malaysia, the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, the China-Europe Railway Express and the New International Land-Sea Trade Corridor, have become a catalyst for trade and economic growth in the region and worldwide.
These mega-projects also have broader implications as they serve as proof of China's goodwill and unwavering commitment to promoting peace, security and development in partner countries.
The BRI's current focus on high-quality development, with an emphasis on environmental sustainability and people-centered development, will ensure that development best serves the common interests of all participating countries and that the benefits of cooperation reach all people.
I believe that this global initiative will lead to new models of growth and development in new areas such as green development, digital cooperation and technology innovation, among others.
All in all, the BRI has been instrumental in fostering socio-economic development in Cambodia and other participating countries, because building a robust and interconnected infrastructure system is essential for a country to achieve sustainable development.
Editor's note: Seun Sam is a policy analyst at the Royal Academy of Cambodia.
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Xinhua News Agency.