File photo: Fu Cong, China's permanent representative to the UN. (Provided to chinadaily.com.cn)
China's top ambassador to the United Nations on Wednesday stressed that China is "greatly concerned" over the Syrian Army "granting senior ranks to foreign terrorist fighters", including the leader of the Turkistan Islamic Party, also known as the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM).
China calls on Syria to "fulfill its counter-terrorism obligations and to prevent any terrorist forces from using the Syrian territory to threaten the security of other countries," said Fu Cong, China's permanent representative to the UN. The ETIM was designated by China and listed by the UN Security Council as a terrorist organization.
"No matter how the domestic situation in Syria develops, the bottom line of zero tolerance for terrorism cannot be changed," Fu said, noting that the council recently issued a statement on Syria, making it clear that states should combat all terrorist organizations listed by the council and deny safe haven for terrorists.
He said China supports a Syrian-led and Syrian-owned political process in accordance with the spirit and principles of Council Resolution 2254, a resolution adopted unanimously in 2015 that endorsed such a political transition to end the conflict.
The resolution also reiterates the call for member states to prevent and suppress terrorist acts carried out by individuals, groups, undertakings and entities associated with terrorist organizations designated by the Security Council.
The international community should "respect Syria's right to pursue a development path in line with its national conditions, and allow the Syrian people to decide their country's future based on their will", said Fu.
Fu pointed out that Syria has "one of the worst humanitarian situations, with more than 16 million people in dire humanitarian straits, and the prolonged illegal unilateral sanctions have further aggravated the suffering of the Syrian people".
He called on the international community to increase its assistance to Syria. He said the UN should play a coordinating role, speeding up the implementation of humanitarian projects and prioritizing the needs of the population to survive the winter.
"All parties in Syria should abide by international humanitarian law, cooperate actively with humanitarian operations, and ensure humanitarian access and the safety of humanitarian personnel," said Fu.
Fu further said that the Golan Heights is internationally recognized as occupied Syrian territory. Resolution 497 (1981) adopted by the council determines the legal status of the Golan Heights and "makes it clear that the Israeli occupation of the Syrian Golan Heights is null and void".
China reiterates that the sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of Syria should be respected, that the council resolutions on the Golan Heights must be implemented, and that the 1974 agreement on disengagement of forces should be complied with, Fu said.
He said that China has "long pursued a policy of friendship and cooperation with Syria, and has never interfered in its internal affairs", he said.
"We stand ready to continue working with the international community for Syria to have a smooth transition and gradually embark on a path of peaceful development," said Fu.
