The situation in Syria is at a critical stage with daunting challenges. The international community should strengthen solidarity and coordinate its actions to support and help Syria achieve stability and development, said Fu Cong, China's permanent representative to the United Nations, at the UN Security Council Briefing on Syria, on Wednesday.
China supports a Syrian-led and Syrian-owned political process in accordance with the spirit and principles of Council Resolution 2254. The international community must effectively respect Syria’s right to pursue a development path in line with its national conditions, and allow the Syrian people to decide their country’s future based on their will, Fu noted, according to the statement published on the website of the Permanent Mission of China to the United Nations.
The national dialogue conference scheduled for January 5 has been postponed. China expects all parties in Syria to proceed from the long-term interests of the country and people and start an open and inclusive political settlement process. China supports a greater role by the UN and Special Envoy Geir Pedersen in this process.
No matter how the domestic situation in Syria develops, the bottom line of zero tolerance for terrorism cannot be changed. The Council recently issued a press statement on Syria, making it clear that states should combat all terrorist organizations listed by the Council and deny safe haven for terrorists, said Fu.
It is reported that the Syrian army has recently granted senior military ranks to a number of foreign terrorist fighters, including the head of a Council-listed terrorist organization, the Turkistan Islamic Party, also known as the East Turkestan Islamic Movement. China is greatly concerned about this. China calls on Syria to fulfill its counter-terrorism obligations and to prevent any terrorist forces from using the Syrian territory to threaten the security of other countries, Fu said.
Syria has one of the worst humanitarian situations, with more than 16 million people in dire humanitarian straits, and the prolonged illegal unilateral sanctions have further aggravated the suffering of the Syrian people, Fu said.
The UN should play a coordinating role, speeding up the implementation of humanitarian projects and prioritizing the needs of the population to survive the winter. All parties in Syria should abide by international humanitarian law, cooperate actively with humanitarian operations, and ensure humanitarian access and the safety of humanitarian personnel, said the envoy.
China reiterates that the sovereignty, independence, unity, and territorial integrity of Syria should be respected, that the Council resolutions on the Golan Heights must be implemented, and that the 1974 agreement on disengagement of forces should be complied with, Fu noted.
China has long pursued a policy of friendship and cooperation with Syria, and has never interfered in its internal affairs. China stands ready to continue working with the international community for Syria to have a smooth transition and gradually embark on a path of peaceful development, said the envoy.
