Title: CPPCC holds gathering to ring in the new year, Xi Jinping delivers important speech
Date: Jan 1, 2025

The National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) held a New Year gathering in its auditorium in Beijing on the morning of Dec 31. Party and state leaders Xi Jinping, Li Qiang, Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, Li Xi and Han Zheng attended the gathering. Also present at the gathering were leading officials of China’s non-Communist parties’ central committees and the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce (ACFIC), representatives of personages without party affiliation, leading officials of central Party and state departments, and individuals from various ethnic groups and all walks of life in Beijing.
Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, delivered an important speech. "On the journey of Chinese modernization, we will not only encounter clear skies and gentle breezes, but also face high winds, choppy waters, and even dangerous storms," Xi emphasized. "We must maintain strategic resolve, pool the collective force of all the sons and daughters of the Chinese nation working with one heart and one mind to brave winds and waves in our endeavors to advance the great cause of building a strong country and realizing the national rejuvenation," Xi said.
On behalf of the CPC Central Committee, the State Council and the Central Military Commission, Xi extended New Year greetings to the non-CPC political parties, the ACFIC and personages without party affiliation, to the Chinese people of all ethnic groups, to compatriots in Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, to overseas Chinese, and to friends from all over the world who care about and support China's modernization drive.
Xi pointed out that 2024 was a key year for achieving the goals and tasks of the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-2025). Over the past year, in the face of challenges at home and abroad, we responded calmly and took comprehensive measures to successfully fulfill the main targets and tasks of the economic and social development for the year, and took new solid strides in advancing Chinese modernization. Our development in the past year has been extraordinary and the achievements are encouraging. They have strengthened our resolve and confidence in promoting Chinese modernization.
Xi stressed that over the past year, the CPPCC has earnestly implemented the decisions and arrangements of the CPC Central Committee, performed its duties closely in line with the central tasks, strengthened self-improvement, and made new contributions to the development of the cause of the Party and the country.
Xi pointed out that 2025 marks the final year of the 14th Five-Year Plan. We must adhere to the general principle of pursuing progress while maintaining stability, fully and faithfully implement the new development philosophy on all fronts, accelerate the building of a new development paradigm, firmly promote high-quality development, further deepen reform comprehensively, and expand high-standard opening up. We will better ensure both development and security, implement more proactive and impactful macro policies, promote sustained economic recovery, continuously improve people's living standards, maintain social harmony and stability, fulfill the goals and tasks of the 14th Five-Year Plan with high quality, and lay a solid foundation for getting the 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-2030) off to a good start, he said.
Xi emphasized that the CPPCC must ensure the integration of Party leadership, the united front and consultative democracy. He stated that the institution should focus on central tasks while serving broader national interests, and give full play to its role as a specialized consultative body. It should also strengthen political guidance, encourage greater political participation and the offering of suggestions, as well as rally people's support, build consensus, draw on collective wisdom, and pool strengths.
Wang Huning, a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and chairperson of the National Committee of the CPPCC, presided over the gathering. He pointed out that it is imperative to earnestly study and implement the spirit of General Secretary Xi's important speech, unswervingly uphold the Party's leadership, have a good command of the nature of the CPPCC, focus on the central tasks, serve the overall situation, and build the CPPCC’s capacity for performing its duties in the spirit of reform and innovation. He also called for efforts to strive in unity with greater confidence, pool collective wisdom and strength for achieving China’s economic and social development goals in 2025 in an all round manner, and work tirelessly to build China into a strong country on all fronts and advance national rejuvenation through Chinese modernization.
Hao Mingjin, chairman of the Central Committee of the China National Democratic Construction Association, delivered a speech on behalf of the central committees of all non-CPC political parties, the ACFIC, and personages without party affiliation. He expressed their commitment to rallying more closely around the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, working together with unity and dedication, and unwaveringly striving toward the grand goals of building a strong nation and achieving national rejuvenation.
At the gathering, Xi and other leaders met with representatives from various sectors, shaking hands and exchanging warm greetings. Members of the CPPCC National Committee, along with literary and art workers, presented a wonderful performance. The gathering concluded with a collective rendition of “Unity is Strength.” The hall was filled with a joyous and harmonious festive atmosphere.
Among those attending the gathering were members of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, secretaries of the Secretariat of the CPC Central Committee, leaders from the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress and the State Council, as well as current leaders and former vice chairpersons of the CPPCC National Committee.
