Title: Relief efforts intensify following 6.8-magnitude earthquake in Xizang
Date: Jan 8, 2025

(ECNS) -- A powerful 6.8-magnitude earthquake struck Dingri County Xigaze, Xizang Autonomous Region, at 9:05 a.m. on Tuesday, leaving 126 people dead and 188 injured as of 10 a.m on Wednesday. In response, the Tibet Autonomous Region Emergency Command upgraded its response to the highest Level 1.
By 10:00 p.m. on Tuesday, the first batch of over 5,800 central relief supplies, including cotton tents, winter clothing, and blankets, had arrived in the disaster-stricken area. An additional 16,000 items are expected to reach the affected regions on Wednesday.
Over 14,000 emergency personnel and social rescue workers have been mobilized, rescuing 407 trapped individuals. Authorities have established 187 relocation centers, and set up 3,705 tents to accommodate 46,525 displaced residents. Damaged roads have been fully repaired, ensuring accessibility for rescue operations.
Regional, municipal, and county authorities have deployed 26 medical teams comprising 581 personnel and 107 ambulances to provide medical treatment and transport for the injured. All injured individuals are now receiving care, with one critically injured person transferred to a regional hospital for specialized treatment.
The People's Bank of China has activated a "green channel" to expedite disaster relief funds. By 6:00 p.m., the National Treasury Center in Xigaze had a disbursed 4 billion yuan （$XXX）to Dingri and Lhatse counties.
To facilitate relief efforts, temporary traffic restrictions have been implemented on sections of G318 and G219 highways in Xigaze. Only emergency vehicles, relief transport, and command vehicles are permitted to enter the restricted zones.
At Sengga Village in Changzhu Township, Dingri County, over 30 relief tents have been set up. These tents are equipped with insulation, winter bedding, thermal mats, portable beds, and emergency lighting. Supplies such as hot water and instant noodles are readily available to residents.
The China Meteorological Administration predicts sunny weather for the next three days in the quake-hit region but warns of strong winds and a sharp drop in temperatures. Gusts may reach 8-9 on the Beaufort scale, with daytime highs of 7°C and nighttime lows plummeting to -18°C.
