President Xi Jinping's New Year address, which highlighted China's achievements in the past year and its commitment to contributing to world peace and growth, was insightful and encouraging, global experts have said.
In his message delivered on Tuesday to ring in 2025, Xi focused on high-quality development and people's livelihoods, and underscored China's vision to promote global governance reform.
Xi did not shy away from mentioning the challenges facing the Chinese economy and called on everyone to remain confident.
Jack Perry, chairman of the 48 Group in London, called the address "insightful", and said it offers profound lessons not only for China but also for the global community, including businesses and organizations in the United Kingdom.
"The emphasis on high-quality development and the shift from old growth drivers to innovative technologies is particularly noteworthy," Perry said.
"President Xi's remarks deeply aligned with our mission to foster collaboration, understanding and mutual prosperity."
The achievements in new energy vehicles, integrated circuits, artificial intelligence and quantum communications demonstrate "China's commitment to advancing technological frontiers", which are directly relevant to UK businesses, particularly in sectors such as smart infrastructure, AI-led net-zero projects and medical technology enhancements, Perry said.
"I see immense potential in the lessons outlined in President Xi's message. By embracing these values and fostering deeper UK-China collaboration, we can create a future that benefits businesses, communities and the world at large," he said.
Keith Bennett, co-editor of the London-based Friends of Socialist China platform, said that Xi's message "embodies confidence combined with realism". It outlines the current situation in China without seeking to obscure difficulties and challenges, whether domestic or global, objective or subjective, and "it points the way forward", he said.
President Xi's address emphasized that "challenges and pressures need to be overcome through hard work", Bennett said, adding that it is a message that people in every country should take seriously.
In identifying current objective as well as problems and issues that require resolution, Xi's speech "shows how the new is being born in the course of tackling old and new challenges; for example, in the fostering and development of new quality productive forces", he said.
Ron Chow, co-chairman of the US-China Youth and Student Exchange Association, called Xi's New Year address "truly inspiring".
The speech, which highlighted advancements in technological innovation, improvements in people's livelihoods and the progress made in international cooperation, was "deeply encouraging", he said.
Chow said what touched him the most was the emphasis on China's advocacy for cooperation and mutual benefit, with its commitment to building a community with a shared future for mankind.
"The firm stand for peace and opposition to division and conflict are not only China's voice, but also the shared aspiration of all peace-loving people. ... China shoulders its responsibilities with dignity, making overseas Chinese proud and eager to contribute," he said.
Chow added that he is confident that China will overcome all challenges and become even more strong and prosperous, with its people leading more harmonious and fulfilling lives.
Oleg Timofeev, an associate professor at RUDN University in Russia, said that Xi's speech reflected China's economic and high-tech development.
The world has recognized China's remarkable achievements across various fields over the past year, including the semiconductor sector, Timofeev said.
"The development of China's homegrown silicon capabilities is crucial for advancing modern technology across a wide range of industries, positioning China as a high-tech powerhouse," he added.
