Title: Xi envisions shining future for Macao
Date: Dec 19, 2024

President Xi Jinping has urged the Macao Special Administrative Region to fully leverage the institutional advantages of the practice of "one country, two systems", work hard and be bold in making innovations to create a brighter future for the cherished pearl of the motherland.
Xi made the remarks on Wednesday afternoon as he arrived in the SAR amid eager anticipation of people from all walks of life ahead of the 25th anniversary of Macao's return to the motherland, which falls on Friday.
Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, and his wife, Peng Liyuan, were warmly welcomed by hundreds of young people and representatives of the public, who flanked the red carpet waving the national and regional flags as well as colorful bouquets.
"Every visit to this beautiful place has been very delightful for me," Xi said in a brief speech at the airport.
This is the seventh time in 25 years that Xi has set foot in Macao, which has a land area of 33.3 square kilometers and is located close to Zhuhai in Guangdong province.
In 2019, President Xi attended a gathering celebrating the 20th anniversary of Macao's return to the motherland and the inauguration ceremony of the fifth-term government of the Macao SAR. At that time, he called on all sections of society to build on what Macao has accomplished and take all undertakings in the SAR to the next level.
"This time, I'm here to celebrate with fellow compatriots the 25th anniversary of Macao's return to the motherland and see Macao's new developments and new changes in these years," he said.

President Xi Jinping and his wife, Peng Liyuan, are greeted by children waving the national and regional flags during a welcoming ceremony upon their arrival in Macao on Wednesday. (FENG YONGBIN/CHINA DAILY)
On behalf of the central government and Chinese people of all ethnic groups, Xi extended sincere greetings and best wishes to Macao's residents, and said that Macao's development and the wellbeing of its residents is always on his mind.
Over the past 25 years, the practice of "one country, two systems "with Macao characteristics has achieved success widely recognized by the world, showcasing great vitality and unique charm, Xi said.
It is the glory of Macao's residents and the pride of all Chinese people that the motherland is developing rapidly in an unstoppable way with each passing day and Macao is making steady progress with a promising future, he said.
Xi added that he will spend time visiting different places in Macao during his three-day stay and hold extensive and in-depth exchanges with friends in Macao to discuss the region's development.
Wong Ho-ian, a student of Escola Choi Nong Chi Tai, who stood near the podium when Xi was delivering his speech, held a bright yellow "pearl" in her hands — a prop she used during the dragon and lion dance performances held to welcome the president and his wife.
"Although I'm only a high school student, I have learned a lot about how the motherland has supported Macao's development. I was very happy to hear him say that Macao is like'a pearl on the palm of the motherland'," Wong said, adding that the way Xi described the city struck a chord with Macao's residents.
Wong Kit-cheng, a lawmaker in Macao, said that Xi's visit represents the central government's best wishes for the SAR.
Wong, who also serves as the vice-president of the Women's General Association of Macao, said the president's arrival will set a clear path for Macao's development in the new era and the work of the new SAR government. "It also reflects the central government's high attention to Macao's sustained prosperity and stability," she said, adding that the motherland has always been a strong supporter of Macao.
Duarte Alves, president of the General Assembly of the Macanese Youth Association, said it is a great honor to have Xi visit Macao for a gathering to mark such an important date. "Macao today is a result of the vision of the country's leaders for decades and we, as people in Macao, are very proud," he said.

