LOS ANGELES, Nov. 8 (Xinhua) -- The 16th Chinese American Film Festival (CAFF) and Chinese American TV Festival (CATF) was held virtually yesterday due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Founded in 2005 by EDI Media Inc., the cultural event aims to promote film and television industry exchanges and cooperation between China and the United States, and to enhance the influence and visibility of China's outstanding film and television works in international markets.
The annual event is usually held in November in the U.S. city of Los Angeles, but was forced to move online this year as the world battles the ongoing pandemic.
Donnie Yen won the CAFF Best Actor in a Leading Role Golden Award for his performance in "Ip Man 4," the latest installment in the Chinese martial arts film franchise "Ip Man" based on the life of a legendary Wing Chun master.
Sammi Cheng won the CAFF Best Actress in a Leading Role Golden Angel Award for her performance in thriller "Fatal Visit," based on Candace Chong's acclaimed play "Murder in San Jose."
Qin Hao and Charmaine Sheh won CATF Best Actor and Best Actress in a Leading Role for television series "The Bad Kids" and "Winter Begonia," respectively.
Warner Bros.' sci-fi action film "Tenet" took home the award for the Most Popular U.S. Film in China this year. Directed by Christopher Nolan, the movie has so far grossed about 456 million yuan (around 68.97 million U.S. dollars) on the Chinese mainland for a worldwide cume of 350.8 million dollars.
The organizing committee of the CAFF and CATF is "persistent in promoting film and television exchanges between China and the United States against all difficulties and actively explores to hold this event online" amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Chinese Consul General in Los Angeles Zhang Ping said in a video speech.
The event "not only maintains the continuity of activities, but also opens up a new way for China-U.S. film and television exchanges," and "has been increasingly influential, becoming an important platform for film and television exchanges" between the two countries, Zhang said.
"I watched this event begin in Los Angeles County and expand across the pacific over the years," said Kathryn Barger, chair of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, adding that the event has provided unique opportunities to share artists' dreams and creativity.
"By engaging with new culture experiences and people, participants gain a greater understanding of the arts and one another," Barger said in a video speech.
"It's immensely regrettable that we are not able to be together in person for this year's ceremony," said Niels Swinkels, executive vice president of International Distribution of Universal Pictures, noting that 2020 continues to be an incredibly challenging and disruptive year for filmmakers.
"But we are hugely encouraged by the recent signs of enthusiastic moviegoers around the world returning to their local cinemas to experience the magic of movies again," he added.
"It's an honor to be invited to participate in the Chinese American Film and TV Festival. This event has been building bridges for Eastern and Western cultural exchanges and creating lasting friendships and relationships for many years," said Lionsgate Motion Picture Group President of International Helen Lee-Kim in a video speech. Enditem