by Xinhua writer Gao Shan
LOS ANGELES, Sept. 28 (Xinhua) -- "We believe with Panda Ambassadors," Paul Baribault, the president and chief executive officer of San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance said in a special video released on Tuesday, in collaboration with the Chinese Consulate General in Los Angeles.
"While we miss Bai Yun, Xiao Liwu and all of the giant pandas we had the honor of caring for, they will always be cherished members of our family," said Baribault in the video.
"Our love and dedication to them, and to China's giant pandas conservation program, continue through their legacies, and through many of the cutting-edge efforts our teams developed together," he said.
San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance, a nonprofit conservation organization headquartered in San Diego, California, operates the San Diego Zoo and the San Diego Zoo Safari Park.
According to the zoo, hundreds of millions of fans from around the world have fallen head-over-heels in love with China's giant pandas.
Bai Yun, which means white cloud in Chinese, arrived at the San Diego Zoo in 1996. The cuddly panda soon became an iconic image of the zoo and one of the most popular animals.
In 2019, after nearly 23 years at the San Diego Zoo, Bai Yun and her sixth cub born, Xiao Liwu, means little gift in Chinese, returned to China after the zoo's research agreement with China ended.
The special video also reviewed the happy times that Bai Yun and Xiao Liwu had spent at the zoo, and displayed how they enjoy their new life in China's southwestern province of Sichuan.
"Our collaborative partnership brought hope to the future of pandas conservation, supporting China's global population of pandas, advancing critical research and science, celebrating breakthrough achievements, and inspiring the world to protect their future," said the zoo.
Baribault praised China's conservation efforts to save the giant pandas and protect their native habitats, saying it's "a tremendous success."
"We have been honored to work alongside you and are ready to welcome the next generation of giant pandas to the San Diego Zoo," he said, adding that it's important to inspire the next generation to care for wildlife here and on the other side of the world.
"We believe with Panda Ambassadors, and we can help our millions of guests understand that we all share more similarities than differences," said Baribault.
Zhang Ping, Chinese Consul General in Los Angeles, shared his love of giant pandas in the video, saying they are "goodwill envoys for China-U.S. friendship and cooperation."
"In 2019, I had the pleasure to participate in the event organized by the San Diego Zoo to farewell Bai Yun and Xiao Liwu's return to China. I was impressed by the American people's affection for the giant pandas and their friendly feelings towards the Chinese people," said Zhang.
The consul general expressed his gratitude in a tweet on Tuesday to Baribault and the zoo for presenting the video on the occasion of China's National Day, and for their dedicated efforts in promoting China-U.S. cooperation on giant pandas conservation, adding that "China and the U.S. do need more cooperation for a better world."
"This is a success story on China-U.S. collaboration on wildlife conservation and their common efforts to protect planet earth. We hope to express, through this video, our wishes for continuous cooperation between China and the United States and for the lasting friendship between our two peoples," he said. Enditem