SAN FRANCISCO, July 8 (Xinhua) -- Florence Fang, 86, paused to hold back her tears while delivering a speech at the reopening ceremony of WWII Pacific War Memorial Hall.
With the reopening after 16 months of operation suspension due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a new exhibition titled "National Memories: US-China Collaboration During WWII" was launched on Wednesday in the two-story building at the corner of the streets in San Francisco Chinatown.
"During WWII, the United States and China were allies. We fought shoulder to shoulder together against aggression. This is our lasting memories," said Fang, the initiator and honorable curator of the memorial hall.
"I cannot agree more with the theme of today's ceremony, memories of past collaboration lead to future collaboration," said Wang Donghua, Chinese consul-general in San Francisco. "History is a mirror and the best teacher. The memorial hall like this is the best of the classrooms."
Inaugurated on Aug. 15, 2015, the 70th anniversary of Japan's unconditional surrender in World War II, the memorial hall is the first of its kind outside China commemorating the Chinese war of resistance against Japanese aggression.
"It offers so much to not only the Chinese American community in Chinatown but non-Chinese people who visit Chinatown. They have a chance to see something that they probably didn't expect to see," said Jeffrey Greene, chairman of the Sino-American Aviation Heritage Foundation, at the reopening ceremony.
The mission of WWII Pacific War Memorial Hall also helps preserve the memory of U.S.-China solidarity in fighting against a lethal threat and to force all to dwell on how the two great nations should collaborate in response to threats that endanger global peace and prosperity in the coming decades.
At the reopening ceremony, several U.S. representatives shared their views virtually on China-U.S. collaborations in the past and future.
The seminar was hosted by Yawei Liu, a senior advisor on China at the Carter Center. He said the epic collaboration in fighting a common enemy during WWII was vital for both countries at that time.
According to Liu, the engagement between the United States and China since the 1970s brought the longest period of peace and prosperity in Asia and the Pacific community in recent history. "We have to do everything possible to wage peace between our two nations and make our exceptional interconnect. This is the anchor of future peace and prosperity."
Sometimes memories can be too selective and too few Americans know the story of U.S.-China collaboration, said Clayton Dube, director of U.S.-China Institute at the University of Southern California.
"Our societies need to do a better job of saving the whole, of helping people understand the whole. That's something that this memorial hall contributes in an important way," he added.
Dube argued that when facing planetary problems like climate change, the two countries have no choice but to cooperate.
"We only can work together to address it. It is absolutely essential," he said. "It's important that we remember the past and pay attention to our successes in collaboration in the past, so as to strengthen our resolve to collaborate together for a better tomorrow."
"We need to seek guidance from history for the way forward in the future," consul-general Wang said in his speech. "Today's global challenges and threats remind us of cooperation in the spirit of solidarity. It's the only way that could lead us out of difficulties and crises."
By working together, China and the United States can make many great things happen in favor of both countries and of the rest of the world, Wang added.
"The door to each other must remain wide open and cannot be closed," Yawei Liu said. "This is why we are all here to celebrate the reopening of the WWII Pacific War Memorial Hall."
On the guestbook at the door, Wang wrote, "Looking back on history enlightens the future. The win-win cooperation serves the law of nature." Many visitors took out their cell phones to take a photo of the poetic and philosophic Chinese characters. Enditem