Chinese pianist Lang Lang performs at Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles, the United States, on Sept. 15, 2022. Lang Lang performed iconic Disney melodies in a concert Thursday night at Hollywood Bowl, an amphitheatre in Hollywood Hills of Los Angeles. (Xinhua/Gao Shan)
LOS ANGELES, Sept. 16 (Xinhua) -- Chinese pianist Lang Lang performed iconic Disney melodies in a concert Thursday night at Hollywood Bowl, an amphitheatre in Hollywood Hills of Los Angeles, in the western U.S. state of California.
Lang took the full house of audience in a musical adventure through some of the most famous Disney and Pixar movie melodies, ranging from classics like The Jungle Book and Mary Poppins to new favorites Coco, Frozen, and Encanto.
Lang reimagined the melodies in new versions written especially for him by some of the world's leading arrangers, and presented to the audience through his unique interpretations.
The melodies played by Lang at the concert were selected from his new album "The Disney Book," which was released on Friday.
The album traces the history of music in Disney films from the 1920s to the present day, whilst also reflecting Lang's own personal journey.
Addressing the concert, Lang said his was inspired by Disney movies and music in his childhood, which was central aspiration for his new album and the special concert.
Lang said he has spent the past three years commissioning new arrangements of the classic songs.
"Animation sparked my imagination and transported me to other worlds. The music was a big part of this experience -- and led to my life-long love of classical music," he told reporters ahead of the concert.
Lang, who was born in 1982, has performed with leading orchestras in China, North America, Europe, and other parts of the world over the past years.
Since its opening in 1922, the Hollywood Bowl has been a premier destination for live music in Southern California. ■
A display of fireworks is seen during Chinese pianist Lang Lang's concert at Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles, the United States, on Sept. 15, 2022. Lang Lang performed iconic Disney melodies in a concert Thursday night at Hollywood Bowl, an amphitheatre in Hollywood Hills of Los Angeles. (Xinhua/Gao Shan)
A display of fireworks is seen during Chinese pianist Lang Lang's concert at Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles, the United States, on Sept. 15, 2022. Lang Lang performed iconic Disney melodies in a concert Thursday night at Hollywood Bowl, an amphitheatre in Hollywood Hills of Los Angeles. (Xinhua/Gao Shan)