by Xiong Maoling, Hu Yousong
WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 (Xinhua) -- Through compelling dance and exquisite music, the story of Hua Mulan, a legendary Chinese heroine who dressed as a man and joined the army in her father's place, resonated deeply with the U.S. audience, as the dance drama "Mulan" recently made a stunning debut in Washington D.C.
The vibrant and remarkable dance with Chinese Kung Fu elements, warm and passionate music, on top of a heartbreaking story with funny moments, won rounds of applause from some 1,800 audiences at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts last week.
"It was great. I think that's one of the most beautiful things I've ever seen," 13-year-old Clare Kavanagh told Xinhua in excitement after watching the dance drama with her mother. They drove 60 km from Leesburg, Virginia, to see the performance.
Karen Fleming, who came from Rockville, Maryland, said that she had seen the movie Mulan before, but was still "very entertained" by the dance drama and able to follow along "because the dancing was so vibrant and really told the story."
Fleming told Xinhua that it was really nice to see a strong woman character and the love she had for her father. "I think even though it's old (story), it's still relevant today."
Echoing her views, Alison Friedman, who traveled from Chapel Hill, North Carolina -- over 400 km away -- told Xinhua that Mulan is a story of someone who loves family and is very brave, and she loves Mulan especially because it is a female hero story.
"I think America and China both share the love of a hero story of somebody who believes in something passionately and will risk everything to pursue it," said Friedman, who is the executive and artistic director of Carolina Performing Arts.
Having lived in Beijing for 16 years and speaking fluent Chinese, Friedman said that arts are the most necessary aspect to "see our humanity, what we have in common, what we share."
"I sincerely hope performances like this continue to build stronger people-to-people relations," she said.
Doryl Jensen, who also came to watch the show from the U.S. state of North Carolina, told Xinhua that when he first went to China 20 years ago, he was quite taken with Chinese history and culture.
Now retired, Jensen has worked for many years on performing arts exchanges between the two countries and has invited what he described as "wonderful" performing groups from Inner Mongolia, Shanghai and other places to the United States.
"I think cultural exchanges, especially on the performing arts level, is incredibly important for strengthening the image of the people, the ideas that they exchange," said Jensen.
The dance drama, created by Ningbo Performing Arts Group in Eastern China's Zhejiang Province, won the prestigious Lotus Award in December 2018, which represents the highest honor for dance in China.
As part of China Arts and Entertainment Group's "Image China" show series, the dance drama was presented on the stage of the Kennedy Center from Sept. 29 to Oct. 1. Just days before, it made its U.S. debut at the Boch Center in Boston on Sept. 23.
Tweed Roosevelt, the great-grandson of former U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt and a professor at Long Island University, watched the performance in Boston. He told Xinhua earlier that with the challenges in U.S.-China relations, what people think matters tremendously.
"The people of America need to know more about the Chinese, and this is an excellent way," said Roosevelt.
Before the premiere in Washington D.C., Li Baozong, general manager of China Arts and Entertainment Group, said at a reception that "the loyalty, filial piety and patriotism in this work are also common emotions of mankind," and he believes that American audiences will certainly resonate.
Chinese Ambassador to the United States Xie Feng, who also attended the reception for the premiere in the U.S. capital, said Mulan's courage and her love for family, for her country and for peace are admirable attributes cherished in both Chinese and American societies.
"The same traits are necessary for today's China-U.S. relationship: the courage to forge ahead, the resolve to blaze a new trail and the perceptiveness to look through the mists," said Xie.
"When Chinese and Americans are closer, the two countries will be closer," said the Chinese ambassador. "With greater flows of people across the Pacific, we will have a better chance to stabilize and improve the China-U.S. relationship." ■