Polestar CEO Thomas Ingenlath speaks during an interview at an innovation demonstration event of Polestar in Los Angeles, the United States, on Nov. 9, 2023. Swedish electric vehicle (EV) maker Polestar expects to enhance technological cooperation with China and seek greater opportunities in the Chinese market, said Polestar CEO Thomas Ingenlath in an interview with Xinhua on Thursday. (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)
by Xinhua writer Tan Jingjing
LOS ANGELES, Nov. 10 (Xinhua) -- Swedish electric vehicle (EV) maker Polestar expects to enhance technological cooperation with China and seek greater opportunities in the Chinese market, said Polestar CEO Thomas Ingenlath in an interview with Xinhua on Thursday.
"The speed of innovation in China is like nothing you can imagine compared to any other market. It is a market where - more than in any other part of the world - customers demand a completely different experience and digital integration in their cars," Ingenlath said at an innovation demonstration event held in Los Angeles.
"There is a huge opportunity for us in China. But at the same time, it is also one of the most challenging markets for a European brand to succeed in - both culturally and technologically," he added.
Headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden, Polestar is determined to using design and technology in its electric cars to accelerate the shift to sustainable mobility.
Its EV cars are available in 27 markets globally across North America, Europe and Asia Pacific.
At the demonstration event, Polestar showcased a full range of future models, including Polestar 3, Polestar 4, Polestar 5, Polestar Precept, the Polestar Electric Roadster Concept and Polestar Synergy. Guests were invited to test drive the latest models.
"China has been very strong and important part of our history. From the very beginning, we manufactured our cars in many places in China, including Chengdu, Taizhou, and Hangzhou Bay," Ingenlath told Xinhua.
Calling China one of the fastest growing EV markets in the world, Ingenlath said Polestar has attached great importance to the Chinese market for its great competence, quality, reliability, and the great supply chain base.
Polestar has partnered with Chinese technology company DreamSmart Group to develop the technology platform into a seamless operating system for Polestar cars sold in China, including in-car apps, streaming services, and intelligent vehicle software.
"This was an opportunity to bring together what we believe are Polestar's strengths in design and customer experience, and DreamSmart's strengths in mobile technologies and software engineering," Ingenlath said.
He expressed confidence in China's development, saying there is "high resilience" in China's economy as well as the eagerness of the country to go forward.
Calling climate change one of the biggest challenges that the world is facing, Ingenlath said joint efforts are needed to address the challenge, to reach "fossil-free industry."
"Global problems can only be fought by global solutions," he said, adding green energy is the best solution for personal transport and a more healthy environment. ■
A visitor views an electric car at an innovation demonstration event of Polestar in Los Angeles, the United States, on Nov. 9, 2023. Swedish electric vehicle (EV) maker Polestar expects to enhance technological cooperation with China and seek greater opportunities in the Chinese market, said Polestar CEO Thomas Ingenlath in an interview with Xinhua on Thursday. (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)
Polestar CEO Thomas Ingenlath speaks during an interview at an innovation demonstration event of Polestar in Los Angeles, the United States, on Nov. 9, 2023. Swedish electric vehicle (EV) maker Polestar expects to enhance technological cooperation with China and seek greater opportunities in the Chinese market, said Polestar CEO Thomas Ingenlath in an interview with Xinhua on Thursday. (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)
Visitors view an electric car at an innovation demonstration event of Polestar in Los Angeles, the United States, on Nov. 9, 2023. Swedish electric vehicle (EV) maker Polestar expects to enhance technological cooperation with China and seek greater opportunities in the Chinese market, said Polestar CEO Thomas Ingenlath in an interview with Xinhua on Thursday. (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)
Visitors view an electric car at an innovation demonstration event of Polestar in Los Angeles, the United States, on Nov. 9, 2023. Swedish electric vehicle (EV) maker Polestar expects to enhance technological cooperation with China and seek greater opportunities in the Chinese market, said Polestar CEO Thomas Ingenlath in an interview with Xinhua on Thursday. (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)