A woman sticks a Rabbit Forever stamp on a postcard at the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco, the United States, Jan. 12, 2023. The U.S. Postal Service (USPS) on Thursday dedicated its Year of the Rabbit Forever stamp at the Museum to celebrate the coming Lunar New Year. (Photo by Liu Yilin/Xinhua)
SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 12 (Xinhua) -- The U.S. Postal Service (USPS) on Thursday dedicated its Year of the Rabbit Forever stamp at the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco to celebrate the coming Lunar New Year.
"For more than three decades, the Postal Service has issued stamps highlighting the Lunar New Year, and they are some of the most successful stamp releases in our history," said Derek Kan, a member of the USPS Board of Governors, who served as the dedicating official.
"This year, we are excited to be the city to introduce the release of the Year of the Rabbit Commemorative Forever Stamp," said San Francisco Mayor London Breed.
"As we look forward to preparing for and celebrating the arrival of spring, this stamp symbolizes our continued commitment to working with one another not only during this time of the year, but all year round," Breed added.
Lunar New Year is an important holiday for many Asian communities worldwide. The Year of the Rabbit begins on Jan. 22 and ends on Feb. 9, 2024.
In observance of this holiday, the USPS introduced its third series of Lunar New Year stamps in 2020. This latest series will continue through 2031 with stamps for the Year of the Dragon, Snake, Horse, Ram, Monkey, Rooster, Dog and Boar still to come.
"At the Asian Art Museum, our mission is to share a broader, richer and more inclusive story of the diverse America we live in today," said Jay Xu, the director and CEO of the Asian Art Museum.
"Hope characterizes the Year of the Rabbit in 2023, and it fills me with hope to unveil this unique Lunar New Year stamp at our museum, and to showcase the power of art everywhere to help tell that special story with beauty and joy," said Xu.
Art director Antonio Alcala worked on the design with artist Camille Chew to create the stamp's imagery. ■
A woman buys Rabbit Forever stamps at the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco, the United States, Jan. 12, 2023. The U.S. Postal Service (USPS) on Thursday dedicated its Year of the Rabbit Forever stamp at the Museum to celebrate the coming Lunar New Year. (Photo by Liu Yilin/Xinhua)
People present Rabbit Forever stamps in front of the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco, the United States, Jan. 12, 2023. The U.S. Postal Service (USPS) on Thursday dedicated its Year of the Rabbit Forever stamp at the Museum to celebrate the coming Lunar New Year. (Photo by Liu Yilin/Xinhua)