Hu Wei, chairman of the China General Chamber of Commerce-U.S.A. (CGCC), president and CEO of Bank of China U.S.A., speaks at the China General Chamber of Commerce-U.S.A.(CGCC) 2024 Lunar New Year of the Dragon Gala in New York, the United States, on Jan. 18, 2024. Business leaders from Chinese and American corporations are more upbeat about China-U.S. relations as bilateral ties have experienced stabilization and improvement in recent months. (Xinhua/Liu Yanan)
by Xinhua writer Liu Yanan
NEW YORK, Jan. 19 (Xinhua) -- Business leaders from Chinese and American corporations are more upbeat about China-U.S. relations as bilateral ties have experienced stabilization and improvement in recent months.
Hu Wei, chairman of the China General Chamber of Commerce-U.S.A. (CGCC), president and CEO of Bank of China U.S.A., expressed his confidence in "embarking on an age of unprecedented progress" and hinted that "the future remains bright and full of opportunity."
"We look forward to building new programs to better meet your business needs and bring our two nations closer," said Hu at the CGCC 2024 Lunar New Year of the Dragon Gala on Thursday evening.
Founded in 2005, the CGCC is seen as the largest non-profit organization connecting both American and Chinese enterprises in the United States.
Those difficult but constructive dialogues between Chinese and U.S. commerce officials have made the business environment a lot easier today, said Ni Pin, vice chairman of the CGCC and president of Wanxiang America Corporation.
Ni also stressed the importance of fostering a friendly and welcoming environment in general to grow businesses.
After the San Francisco summit between U.S. and Chinese leaders, "it is time for us to get together to turn those visions into reality and it is time to restart our journey," said Ni.
The future of FedEx Corporation is very much brightened by its partnership with China and the Chinese business community, said Raj Subramaniam, president and CEO of FedEx Corporation.
Subramaniam noted that FedEx Corporation has experienced incredible growth since its foray into China four decades ago.
"As we continue to strengthen this relationship with China and work together toward tomorrow, we're deeply committed to the region," said Subramaniam, who was honored at the gala.
"Geopolitics changes, (but) good friendships don't change. In fact, I believe that it is a special input to be mutually supportive during difficult times and for all of us to help mutual understanding, because misunderstandings can be deadly," said Ray Dalio, founder of hedge fund Bridgewater Associates in a video message for the gala.
The U.S.-China relationship has notably stabilized and there's certainly better communication between the two governments compared to eight or nine months ago, said U.S. Ambassador to China Nicholas Burns in a video message for the gala.
The exchange of congratulatory letters by U.S. and Chinese leaders on Jan. 1, 2024 sent a positive signal of continuing to make joint efforts for the sound, stable and sustainable development of the bilateral relationship, said Xu Xueyuan, minister of the Chinese Embassy in the United States, at the gala.
"In line with the two leaders' guidance, the two sides have been conducting frequent high-level exchanges, and dialogue and communication have been picking up in a number of fields," said Xu.
"More practical cooperation is resuming ... We are anticipating more cooperation outcomes in more areas," said Xu. ■
Ni Pin, vice chairman of the China General Chamber of Commerce-U.S.A.(CGCC) and president of Wanxiang America Corporation, speaks at the China General Chamber of Commerce-U.S.A.(CGCC) 2024 Lunar New Year of the Dragon Gala in New York, the United States, on Jan. 18, 2024. Business leaders from Chinese and American corporations are more upbeat about China-U.S. relations as bilateral ties have experienced stabilization and improvement in recent months. (Xinhua/Liu Yanan)
Raj Subramaniam, president and CEO of FedEx Corporation, speaks at the China General Chamber of Commerce-U.S.A.(CGCC) 2024 Lunar New Year of the Dragon Gala in New York, the United States, on Jan. 18, 2024. Business leaders from Chinese and American corporations are more upbeat about China-U.S. relations as bilateral ties have experienced stabilization and improvement in recent months. (Xinhua/Liu Yanan)
Xu Xueyuan (at the podium and on the screen), minister of the Chinese Embassy in the United States, speaks at the China General Chamber of Commerce-U.S.A.(CGCC) 2024 Lunar New Year of the Dragon Gala in New York, the United States, on Jan. 18, 2024. Business leaders from Chinese and American corporations are more upbeat about China-U.S. relations as bilateral ties have experienced stabilization and improvement in recent months. (Xinhua/Liu Yanan)