Chinese Ambassador to the United States Xie Feng delivers a speech during the Panda Ridge opening ceremony at San Diego Zoo in San Diego, California, the United States on Aug. 8, 2024. TO GO WITH "Feature: San Diego Zoo welcomes back beloved pandas on California Panda Day" (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)
by Julia Pierrepont III, Gao Shan
SAN DIEGO, Aug. 8 (Xinhua) -- Cameras flashed, and eager crowds of press and people gathered at the gates of Panda Ridge as two giant pandas, Yun Chuan and Xin Bao, made their eagerly-awaited public debut at the San Diego Zoo on Thursday.
The first to enter the United States in over two decades, the two iconic black and white bears landed in California from China on June 27 for a 10-year international giant panda protection cooperation program with the San Diego Zoo, marking a new round of such collaboration between the two nations.
The crowds waited at least 45 minutes to enter, braving the sweltering heat.
Paola Barajas was dressed all in panda-patterned clothing, including a T-shirt she designed featuring photos of the two new pandas.
"I've been a panda girl ever since I was a little girl," said the San Diego native, adding that she has seen several generations of pandas at the zoo.
"I was lucky enough to be here when the last pandas left five years ago, and I absolutely have to come today to welcome pandas back to San Diego," she told Xinhua.
The joy was infectious as people came from all over the country and abroad to be the first to welcome China's cuddly envoys back to the United States.
Paxton, Matthew and Alex, all from Southern California's Orange County, were delighted to see the pandas in person.
"China takes such good care of their pandas, so it's got to be a sign of trust that they let us take care of two of them," Matthew told Xinhua.
Many feel these beloved animals have an even more critical role to play. "These pandas are diplomats," said Todd Gloria, mayor of San Diego. "I've learned that when I went to China to accept them in their farewell ceremony. I recognize that they symbolize hope and the promise of working together for peace and for harmony."
The mayor remarked that it was a great day for his city, and he "could not be prouder to be here to celebrate the grand opening of Panda Ridge, the new home to our newest San Diegans, Yun Chuan and Xin Bao."
"Our giant panda work inspires countless people and reinforces a longstanding tradition of collaboration between California and China," said Paul Baribault, president and CEO of the San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance, adding that "Giant pandas can unite us. They remind us transformative change is possible when we come together for wildlife, for conservation, and for people. We are more interconnected than ever before."
The San Diego Zoo is one of the most visited zoos in the United States. Located in Balboa Park, it is home to over 12,000 animals representing over 680 species and subspecies.
California Governor Gavin Newsom and Chinese Ambassador to the United States Xie Feng also attended the Panda Ridge opening ceremony.
Newsom told Xinhua that he believes in the opportunity these pandas provide to further peace.
"We're all in this together," said Newsom. "It is about people to people, not just panda to panda."
The governor, who on Wednesday proclaimed Aug. 8 as California Panda Day, noted in his speech that the new pandas were about "celebrating our common humanity" and "celebrating the things that bind us together."
Xie Feng pointed out that California has a special bond with giant pandas, and the San Diego Zoo is the first U.S. institution to cooperate with China on panda conservation.
"The arrival of Yun Chuan and Xin Bao as we celebrate the 45th anniversary of our diplomatic ties has sent a clear and important message: China-U.S. cooperation on panda conservation will not cease, our people-to-people exchanges and subnational cooperation will not stop, and once opened, the door of China-U.S. friendship will not be shut again," said the ambassador.
The ambassador noted that the "story of our panda conservation cooperation is also a most vivid example of our two peoples reaching out to each other." ■
Chinese Ambassador to the United States Xie Feng (3rd L, back) and California Governor Gavin Newsom (2nd L, back) take part in the Panda Ridge opening ceremony at San Diego Zoo in San Diego, California, the United States on Aug. 8, 2024. TO GO WITH "Feature: San Diego Zoo welcomes back beloved pandas on California Panda Day" (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)