Sarwar Kashmeri, a fellow at the New York City-based Foreign Policy Association, also host of Polaris-Live.com, a well-known Internet channel devoted to improving U.S.-China relations, speaks during an interview with Xinhua in New York City, the United States, Dec. 15, 2024.(Xinhua/Liu Yanan)
by Xinhua writers Yang Shilong, Liu Yanan
NEW YORK, Jan. 4 (Xinhua) -- Bold, forward-thinking initiatives are needed to revive U.S.-China ties, said a renowned international relations expert, describing the relationship as "the most consequential" in the world.
"China and America together are about 43 percent of the world's economy ... The stakes are simply too high for us to continue down this path of confrontation," Sarwar Kashmeri, host of Polaris-Live.com, a well-known Internet channel devoted to improving U.S.-China relations, told Xinhua in a recent interview.
The interview coincided with the release of Kashmeri's Telegram IV on U.S.-China relations, a special edition of his annual series compiling actionable recommendations for improving bilateral ties, based on his conversations with global experts on his Polaris-Live platform.
Kashmeri, a fellow at the New York City-based Foreign Policy Association, emphasized the significance of the U.S.-China relationship.
"I would urge both America and China to think big, think boldly, think differently. That's the way forward," said Kashmeri, adding that he hopes his latest report will "stir the waters a bit and maybe do some good."
He said he believes that with the right high-level initiatives and communication channels, China and the United States can shift the narrative from confrontation to cooperation.
"It's going to take some patience and bold thinking, but I'm confident that ultimately, sensible people on both sides will come to sensible conclusions," he said.
One of Kashmeri's key suggestions for reviving the relationship is increasing people-to-people exchanges, which he compared to then-U.S. President Richard Nixon's historic 1972 visit to China.
Kashmeri welcomed Chinese President Xi Jinping's announcement to invite 50,000 young Americans to China for exchange and study programs in a five-year span, and urged the United States to reciprocate by welcoming more Chinese students and scholars.
"We need to get more Americans studying in China and more Chinese students coming to the U.S.," Kashmeri said. "The more we can foster mutual understanding and personal connections, the better."
Additionally, Kashmeri highlighted the success of projects within the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), noting that while large multinational projects often face challenges, China and its BRI partners have successfully navigated obstacles, which he dubbed a major achievement.
The BRI, proposed by Xi in 2013, has now seen more than 150 countries and 30 international organizations sign cooperation agreements, spanning Eurasia, Africa, and Latin America.
"I intend to try and visit some of the big BRI projects, including the Chancay Port in Peru, that have been eminently successful ... What interests me is that any big multinational project can run into trouble, but China and the BRI partners, so far, have been able to work out their problems. And I think that's a huge plus," said Kashmeri. ■