DAR ES SALAAM, Aug. 18 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese government has awarded 46 Tanzanian students with scholarships for 2023/2024 in various Chinese higher learning institutions and 114 students have won the degree program scholarship of the Ministry of Commerce.
Speaking at a farewell reception for the students at the Chinese embassy in Tanzania in Dar es Salaam on Thursday, Kennedy Hosea, the director of higher learning in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, thanked the Chinese government for offering scholarships to Tanzanian students.
"The scholarships offered by the Chinese government to Tanzania are the highest number compared to scholarships offered by other countries," said Hosea, adding that the Chinese scholarships reflected the priority areas of the Tanzanian government, including medicine, science and technology.
Joseph Kahama, secretary general of the Tanzania-China Friendship Promotion Association, urged students that have won the scholarships to be good ambassadors of Tanzania while pursuing their studies in China.
Chen Mingjian, the Chinese ambassador to Tanzania, said the Chinese government will, as always, help Tanzania improve capacity building in the field of education, help Tanzania develop human resources and train talents urgently needed for national construction.
"You will not only learn Chinese but also learn business, engineering, computer, pharmacy and many other different disciplines," Chen told the students.
Amani Mwamlima, one of the beneficiaries of the scholarships, said his studies in China will help him take part in efforts aimed at developing his country.
Mwamlima, 32, who will pursue a Ph.D. in Business Administration at the University of Science and Technology Beijing, urged his fellow students to study hard while in China because the country boasts high-quality education.
In 2020-2022, Mwamlima studied for a Master's Degree in Business Administration at the Beijing Technology and Business University, also under a Chinese government scholarship. ■