Zhang Jing (front), general practitioner from the ninth batch of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Medical Team in Ethiopia, checks medical records of a patient at the Armed Forces Comprehensive Specialized Hospital in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on June 23, 3023. As Ethiopia continues to face challenges in its healthcare system, the Chinese PLA Medical Team's expertise and dedication have won acclaim for their successful partnership with their Ethiopian counterparts in helping to improve healthcare outcomes for patients.(Xinhua/Wang Ping)
ADDIS ABABA, July 8 (Xinhua) -- Gezahegn Tilahun had been suffering from what he described as a "mysterious illness" for more than two years before he was recently admitted to the Armed Forces Comprehensive Specialized Hospital in the Ethiopian capital of Addis Ababa.
"I first started to feel the pain when I was on duty in an active conflict in northern Ethiopia," said Tilahun, as he recalled the struggles he went through with the worsening stomach pain for some time before he eventually got the time to visit the nearest health center.
"I was referred to four hospitals, and none of them identified the real cause of my sickness. Doctors in each hospital told me that my case was complicated and referred me to a higher-level hospital," he said.
In the process, Tilahun lost 21 kilograms due to the disease, and over time, his skin and eyes turned yellow. During this difficult time, members of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Medical Team in Ethiopia visited Tilahun and evaluated his condition while he was admitted to the Armed Forces Comprehensive Specialized Hospital.
Tena Mamo, a surgeon, said Tilahun was diagnosed with a pancreatic tumor, for which the hospital had not conducted surgical procedures before.
"We were going to refer this patient to the Black Lion Hospital (the largest referral hospital in Ethiopia), where the waiting list is very long. Had it not been for Dr. Wang, I am sure we would not have been able to do surgery on this patient," Mamo said.
Wang Xiaojun is the leader of the ninth batch of the Chinese PLA Medical Team in Ethiopia, which is based at the Armed Forces Comprehensive Specialized Hospital.
Eventually, A team of Ethiopian and Chinese surgeons successfully conducted a complex surgical procedure that lasted eight hours and ultimately saved Tilahun's life.
"It was the first surgery we have done for a pancreatic tumor in our hospital. We operated on the patient without any difficulty and no complications," the young Ethiopian surgeon said, as he underscored the milestones achieved in the operation that was marked the first of its kind in the hospital's history.
Two weeks after the successful surgery, Tilahun, who has served for ten years in the Ethiopian army, said he is now feeling better and ready to get back to his service once he is fully recovered from his surgery.
"They (staff at the hospital) told me that the Chinese doctor helped save my life. Without him, who knows, I would have not been alive by now," said Tilahun. "I am now in a very good condition and with their continued assistance and support, I hope I will go back to the army and serve my country as soon as possible."
The ninth batch of the Chinese PLA Medical Team brings together doctors with a range of medical expertise, which includes traditional Chinese medicine.
Bamlak Tessema, a famous international football referee with football refereeing experience during the 2022 FIFA World Cup and Tokyo Olympics, is one of many Ethiopians who are applying acupuncture with the help of Chinese medical practitioners.
Tessema was impressed with the Chinese medical team's technique and method of applying acupuncture, which he compared to the standards he experienced during the Tokyo Olympics.
"I know very well that acupuncture is very nice for the recovery of the muscles, for the tightness of the muscles, whether you have an injury or not. What I saw over here -- the technique and everything -- is up to standard, and the relief was also very, very fantastic," Tessema said.
Recalling his prior overseas experience, Tessema commended Chinese doctors for bringing much-needed curative treatments to the East African country.
"We thank the Chinese (doctors) for the transfer of this knowledge and experience, and then our doctors will continue on that one. I hope it will continue in a very centralized, very frequent way for the treatment of patients and sportsmen," he said.
As Ethiopia continues to face challenges in its healthcare system, the Chinese PLA Medical Team's expertise and dedication have won acclaim for their successful partnership with their Ethiopian counterparts in helping to improve healthcare outcomes for patients.
Hailu Endeshaw, commander of the Armed Forces Comprehensive Specialized Hospital, said the Chinese medical team has been assisting the hospital for nine consecutive years with commendable outcomes during the period.
"The Chinese doctors were very useful from the beginning. We are sharing experiences. Our doctors are working together with the Chinese doctors so that (both teams) can share good experiences. Some of the doctors are also filling the gaps we do not have with specialties," he said.
Endeshaw, in particular, singled out the contributions of the Chinese medical team against the COVID-19 pandemic, which was bolstered by doses of vaccine donated to the Ethiopian people by the Chinese government.
"In the future, we want to increase our ties, our cooperation in different areas. The (Chinese) doctors are very useful for us," he said. ■
Wang Xiaojun (L), leader of the ninth batch of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Medical Team in Ethiopia, and surgeon Tena Mamo (M) communicate with a patient at the Armed Forces Comprehensive Specialized Hospital in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on June 23, 3023. As Ethiopia continues to face challenges in its healthcare system, the Chinese PLA Medical Team's expertise and dedication have won acclaim for their successful partnership with their Ethiopian counterparts in helping to improve healthcare outcomes for patients.(Xinhua/Wang Ping)
Wang Xiaojun (L), leader of the ninth batch of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Medical Team in Ethiopia, checks a patient's health at the Armed Forces Comprehensive Specialized Hospital in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on June 23, 3023. As Ethiopia continues to face challenges in its healthcare system, the Chinese PLA Medical Team's expertise and dedication have won acclaim for their successful partnership with their Ethiopian counterparts in helping to improve healthcare outcomes for patients.(Xinhua/Wang Ping)
Liu Yueqiu, acupuncturist from the ninth batch of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Medical Team in Ethiopia, treats a patient with acupuncture at the Armed Forces Comprehensive Specialized Hospital in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on June 23, 3023. As Ethiopia continues to face challenges in its healthcare system, the Chinese PLA Medical Team's expertise and dedication have won acclaim for their successful partnership with their Ethiopian counterparts in helping to improve healthcare outcomes for patients.(Xinhua/Wang Ping)