Students show their paper cutting works at the closing ceremony of the first Chinese language summer camp in Cairo, Egypt, on July 18, 2023. More than 100 students from Egyptian governmental preparatory schools celebrated on Tuesday the conclusion of their first Chinese language summer camp. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa)
CAIRO, July 18 (Xinhua) -- More than 100 students from Egyptian governmental preparatory schools celebrated on Tuesday the conclusion of their first Chinese language summer camp.
The 14-day camp, the first of its kind in Egypt, was held at the Confucius Institute for Chinese Learning at Cairo University.
"Today, the Chinese language teachers and their students have witnessed a historic moment that wouldn't have happened without the constant support of the Chinese embassy in Egypt," said the institute's director Rehab Mahmoud.
By organizing the camp, the institute aims to help the students learn more about the rich Chinese culture, including Chinese symbols, paper cutting, drawing, songs, calligraphy and the traditional sport of Wushu, she said.
While commending the camp for providing "a unique and unforgettable experience," she asked the students to be patient in discovering more about the amazing Chinese culture.
For his part, Chinese Ambassador to Egypt Liao Liqiang said the camp represents a great beginning.
"I cherish the efforts of the participating students in the camp who studied the Chinese language seriously," Liao told a ceremony to mark the conclusion of the camp.
Both Egypt and China have made prominent contributions to advancing human civilizations, and the Arabic and Chinese languages are among the official and working languages of the United Nations, the Chinese ambassador said.
Learning Arabic and Chinese languages will serve the interests of both countries, he added.
President of Cairo University Mohamed Elkhosht said he encouraged the learning of languages as language is the mirror and the road to express people's thoughts.
"Learning without thinking is a loss," he quoted Confucius as saying, stressing that the civilizations of Egypt and China are open to learning from each other.
During the ceremony, the students staged a series of dancing, drawing, and martial art performances. ■
Students perform a traditional Chinese dance at the closing ceremony of the first Chinese language summer camp in Cairo, Egypt, on July 18, 2023. More than 100 students from Egyptian governmental preparatory schools celebrated on Tuesday the conclusion of their first Chinese language summer camp. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa)
Students show their painting skills at the closing ceremony of the first Chinese language summer camp in Cairo, Egypt, on July 18, 2023. More than 100 students from Egyptian governmental preparatory schools celebrated on Tuesday the conclusion of their first Chinese language summer camp. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa)
People pose for photos at the closing ceremony of the first Chinese language summer camp in Cairo, Egypt, on July 18, 2023. More than 100 students from Egyptian governmental preparatory schools celebrated on Tuesday the conclusion of their first Chinese language summer camp. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa)