JUBA, Sept. 26 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese Embassy in South Sudan celebrated the upcoming 74th founding anniversary of the People's Republic of China (PRC) on Tuesday.
During the event held in Juba, the capital of South Sudan, South Sudan's Minister of Presidential Affairs Barnaba Marial Benjamin called for building a global community with a shared future, emphasizing that the world needs mutual cooperation more than ever to advance the progress of all humanity.
"If I talk about what China has done in South Sudan since the interim period leading to our independence, you will be amazed," he said, adding that China has moved beyond grants and entered into the realm of development and South Sudan expects more investment from China.
"This multi-pronged approach to development will improve the living standards of the South Sudanese people," he added.
Benjamin praised the Chinese government for supporting the successful completion of Phase One of the expansion and modernization of the Juba Teaching Hospital Project. He also expressed appreciation for the positive contributions made by various Chinese medical teams to the health sector of South Sudan since its independence in 2011.
Over the past 74 years, China has prioritized development in its governance, always putting people first, said Chinese Ambassador to South Sudan Ma Qiang. "Today, China has grown into the world's second-largest economy with the largest manufacturing sector, and its per capita GDP has surpassed 12,000 U.S. dollars."
Ma said that the Chinese government has lifted nearly 100 million poor rural residents out of poverty, eliminated absolute poverty for the first time in China's history, and it eradicated extreme poverty -- the first target of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development -- 10 years ahead of schedule.
Ma emphasized that political mutual trust between China and South Sudan has been solidified. "China always respects South Sudan's sovereignty and independent position and opposes interference in South Sudan's internal affairs. It has actively advocated for South Sudan on multilateral occasions such as the United Nations Security Council and supported the South Sudan peace process with tangible actions." ■