KIGALI, Oct. 26 (Xinhua) -- Chinese technical colleges and Rwanda Polytechnic (RP), a government-run agency promoting technical and vocational education and training (TVET) skills development, are exploring potential collaborations, officials said Thursday.
During the China-Africa TVET academic exchange seminar in Kigali, the capital of Rwanda, representatives from both countries recognized the mutual benefits that effective collaboration could offer.
Ye Zhouxuan, an official from the Chinese Embassy in Kigali, emphasized the opportunity for sharing best practices, exchanging experiences, and jointly designing innovative programs to bridge skills gaps and align youth aspirations with job market demands.
"I am confident that the discussions and collaborations arising from this meeting will lead to exciting opportunities in TVET, fostering prosperity and growth for both our nations," he said.
Ye, the secretary of economic and commercial counselor of the embassy, noted the importance of education in the long-term development of both nations. "We are pleased to see that the government of Rwanda places great importance on education and has made remarkable progress in this endeavor. China will continue to stand alongside Rwanda, working together to promote cooperation and development in the field of vocational education between our two countries."
The seminar brought together delegates from Chinese colleges, representatives from the China Africa Vocational Education Alliance (CAVEA), and officials from both countries. CAVEA has played a role in linking Rwanda Polytechnic with Chinese colleges to enhance the quality of education programs.
Sylvie Mucyo, vice chancellor of Rwanda Polytechnic, expressed optimism about the collaboration's success. She highlighted the potential for RP to offer programs that bridge skills gaps, meet industry needs and equip students with knowledge and practical skills in cutting-edge technologies.
"This should produce highly skilled and competent graduates who will contribute to Rwanda's economic growth, foster innovation, and support sustainable development," she said.
Mucyo also said that fostering a culture of international cooperation and cultural exchange could create a diverse and enriched learning environment for students, preparing them to be global citizens capable of addressing 21st-century challenges.
RP comprises eight constituent colleges known as "Integrated Polytechnic Regional Colleges" located throughout Rwanda. Mucyo also commended the Chinese government's support in terms of infrastructure, modern workshop facilities, and laboratory equipment for one of RP's top colleges, IPRC Musanze, which is located in northern Rwanda. ■