Visitors learn Chinese painting during a Chinese culture open day organized in Lome, Togo, on June 21, 2023. (Photo by Tian Yun/Xinhua)
LOME, June 22 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese Embassy in Togo on Wednesday evening invited local media practitioners to attend an event themed "Discovering Chinese culture," with the aim of promoting people-to-people exchanges between China and Togo.
Activities included tea and Chinese food tasting, workshops on Chinese calligraphy, Chinese painting and paper-cutting, and a parade of traditional Chinese costumes presented by teachers and students from the Confucius Institute in the capital of Lome, as well as a free traditional Chinese medicine consultation.
Chao Weidong, Chinese ambassador to Togo, said in his speech that "particular attention" would be given to cultural and human exchanges as the main focus of the embassy's action plan for the whole year 2023.
"A series of activities aimed at strengthening and deepening the interactions or dialogues between our two peoples are in prospect," he said, assuring that the mutual trust between China and Togo remained "still solid" and that the bilateral cooperation was producing "tangible results."
Wediabalo Kossi Tinaka, general secretary of Togo's Ministry of Communication and Media, said he had "a good impression" of the Chinese cultural elements presented during the open day.
"We have discovered the culture of the great Chinese people through centuries," he said, indicating that culture is a mixing factor that promotes the solidarity between China and Togo, whose bilateral relationship is growing.
Lys Djamie, a journalist with the national television TVT, appreciated the traditional Chinese medical consultation offered by the 25th batch of the Chinese medical team on the spot. "In a short period of time by the pulses of my two hands, they told me exact things about my health condition." ■
Visitors learn to make dumplings during a Chinese culture open day organized in Lome, Togo, on June 21, 2023. (Photo by Tian Yun/Xinhua)
Visitors drink tea during a Chinese culture open day organized in Lome, Togo, on June 21, 2023. (Photo by Tian Yun/Xinhua)