NAIROBI, Oct. 2 (Xinhua) -- Chinese tech giant Huawei is supporting the participation of Kenya's national Esports team in the Global Esports Games African qualification matches by providing the 5G network for the competition.
Maureen Mwaniki, public affairs director at Huawei Kenya, said on Monday that the company is thrilled to partner with the Kenyan team and support gamers in the country by providing seamless connectivity via the 5G routers to ensure that they can connect to high-speed 5G networks.
"We believe in the power of technology to elevate gaming experiences, and this partnership exemplifies our commitment to enhancing the Esports ecosystem in the country," Mwaniki said in a statement issued in the Kenyan capital of Nairobi.
The matches are all played online with internet connectivity provided by Huawei, which has offered 5G routers to ensure efficiency. Kenya's Esports team is this year competing for a spot in the African team, where the winner will be chosen after two separate rounds of the Global Esports Games African qualification matches.
She added that Huawei's connectivity infrastructure is suitable for gaming since it has demonstrated that with the large bandwidth of 5G, a user watching 4K video online can skip through the timeline and never have to wait for buffering, revealing that 5G's low latency makes mobile gaming smoother.
Ronny Lusigi, newly-elected Esports Federation Kenya president, expressed confidence in the Kenyan team's ability to perform well in the competition. "We have a strong team. Our gamers have the talent, and I am confident our players will prevail."
Lusigi noted that Kenya has received the necessary support in terms of proper location for 5G internet connectivity and all other necessary equipment. "We reached out to Huawei at very short notice, and it is really generous of them to offer this major boost to our national team. We are hoping for a great result."
In Esports, whether video or online, players face off against each other in a range of games, with various tournaments and leagues offering prize money. ■