JOHANNESBURG, June 15 (Xinhua) -- Six African heads of state are set to embark on a peace mission to Ukraine and Russia, with experts highlighting the global responsibility showcased by China and Africa to reach a political settlement of the Ukraine crisis.
The peace mission, consisting of heads of state of the Republic of Congo, Senegal, Uganda, Egypt, Zambia and South Africa, will visit Kiev and Moscow, respectively.
Diamantino Lopes, a political scientist of Guinea-Bissau, told Xinhua that the conflict has dramatically affected Africa in different areas, particularly economically, causing a surge in food prices and a shortage of fuel and gas.
"Ukraine is a major producer of cereals, and the African continent depends a lot on these products," he said. "In the end, there will be neither 'the winner, even less the loser,' which is why we favor the path of dialogue to find a peaceful solution to this conflict."
Lopes said he welcomes the initiative of the six African leaders to try to mediate and find a diplomatic and peaceful solution.
The Ukraine crisis directly affects Africa, plunging the African economy, said Yira Koroma, a lecturer at Cavendish University in Uganda.
"History has taught us that we cannot achieve peace and security by violence, but rather by dialogue," Koroma said. "Dialogue and negotiation would help two heated parties see how they can iron out differences without violence."
Experts, including Koroma, also hailed China's efforts to solve the crisis politically and peacefully.
China has played a vital role in trying to bring peace, said Emmanuel Matambo, a researcher at the Center for Africa-China Studies of the University of Johannesburg, South Africa.
Noting he agrees that dialogue is the only viable solution to the Ukraine crisis, Lopes said China is an arbiter that favors the path of discussion.
The experts also raised concerns that certain nations have escalated the situation with a Cold War mentality and unilateral sanctions.
"The Cold War saga is not helping the situation," Koroma said, adding that mounting sanctions against Russia was a wrong move that exacerbated the conflict. ■