BLANTYRE, Malawi, May 26 (Xinhua) -- Huawei is making remarkable strides in advancing information communication technology (ICT) programs in Malawi with the establishment of the Huawei Academy within the country.
The Huawei Academy at the Malawi University of Business and Applied Sciences (MUBAS) was established in 2020 to bridge the digital divide by equipping students with cutting-edge knowledge and skills in ICT, according to Umali Leonard, the administrator of the Huawei Academy.
He told Xinhua in a recent interview that the program is empowering young individuals to become proficient in the latest international ICT trends.
"With a comprehensive curriculum covering subjects such as artificial intelligence, cloud computing and big data analysis, the academy provides specialized training to nurture a new generation of ICT professionals who will contribute to Malawi's socioeconomic development," he explained.
The collaboration between Huawei and MUBAS has received widespread recognition for its positive impact on the local ICT ecosystem. The initiative is viewed to be aligned with the Malawian government's efforts to prioritize digital transformation and leverage technology as a catalyst for economic growth.
Martin Msendera, a lecturer at MUBAS's School of Science and Technology, who is also a student at the Huawei Academy, has described the opportunities offered by the Academy as "invaluable."
"The world is changing, and the ICT world is evolving beyond data processing: With the abundance of data we have now, there is a need to interpret and make informed decisions," Msendema told Xinhua. "With the prevalence of e-commerce and social media platforms, we are generating vast volumes of data. The challenge is that if we don't acquire relevant skills and technologies, we will be left behind as individuals, institutions or as a nation."
Msendera hailed Huawei for the company's commitment to improving local talent, which will earn long-term benefits for the country.
For the past years, Huawei has been at the forefront in empowering young people in ICT through, among other ways, the implementation of the Seeds for the Future initiative, which is aimed at developing skilled, local ICT talent and bridging communication between countries and cultures. ■