MAPUTO, Sept. 29 (Xinhua) -- Mozambican President Filipe Nyusi on Thursday inaugurated the Mozambique-China Cultural Center, which was donated by the Chinese government as part of bilateral cooperation in the cultural sector.
The facility, which began construction in 2018, is situated on the main campus of Eduardo Mondlane University in Maputo, the capital of Mozambique. It covers an area of 20,000 square meters, consisting of an auditorium with a seating capacity of 1,500 people and several rooms for theater, musical shows, studios, rehearsals for music and dance, arts and crafts exhibitions, and corporate events.
Speaking on the occasion of the inauguration, Nyusi said that the center serves as a platform for the dissemination of arts and culture, while also strengthening the cultural partnership between Mozambique and China.
"The relationship between Mozambique and China has evolved into a multifaceted cooperation ... and this cultural center that we are inaugurating today will shorten the distance between the culture of the two countries," said Nyusi, praising the fact that the event is taking place at a time when Mozambique is celebrating the 90th anniversary of the first President of the Republic, Samora Machel, who has been considered an icon of the promotion of culture and exchange between peoples, with a view to consolidating national unity.
"Samora argued that we have to make culture an element for national bonding and unity through song and dance," said Graca Machel, widow of Samora Machel.
Chinese Ambassador to Mozambique Wang Hejun emphasized the role of the Chinese government on the African continent within the framework of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) and said the inauguration of the center marks the 10th anniversary of the Belt and Road Initiative.
"The center will provide a place and opportunities for exploring the potential and exchanges between China and Mozambique, as well as strengthening cooperation in the context of FOCAC," said Wang, calling for the deepening of bilateral cooperation relations between the two countries.
The Mozambican private sector, represented by the Confederation of Economic Associations (CTA), sees this center as a catalyst for the dynamic cultural and creative industry in Mozambique, which will allow Mozambican artists to have a multifunctional space to exhibit their various works.
"The center seals the highest moment of cultural diplomacy between the Mozambican and Chinese peoples and constitutes a historic milestone for the national creative industry," said Moreira Chonguica, president of the CTA's culture department.
Academics present at the opening ceremony agreed that the center serves as an opportunity to deepen research into the cultural areas of Mozambique and China so that each country can promote and exhibit its cultural activities. ■