NAIROBI, April 27 (Xinhua) -- Kenya's tourism marketers said Thursday they will capitalize on outdoor and nature-based tourism experiences in a bid to increase tourism numbers from the growing Chinese market.
Francis Gichaba, the chairperson of the Kenya Tourism Board (KTB), said focusing on consumer segments is part of a strategy that the KTB is employing to grow arrivals from the market which he believed holds immense potential for Kenya's tourism sector.
"We are shifting towards sustainable models of tourism in Kenya. This means it is imperative that we deepen our engagement and relations with key markets like China to find synergies to enhance marketing efforts and optimize opportunities," Gichaba said in a statement released in Nairobi, Kenya's capital.
Gichaba made the remarks during the annual Kenya Chinese Tourism Association (KCTA) golf tournament held in Nairobi. Some 120 players drawn from the Chinese community residing in Kenya participated in a golf series.
The tourney forms part of events held by the KCTA with the aim of connecting the diverse community to explore and experience Kenya's travel products and services. Gichaba said the post-COVID recovery plan for Kenya's tourism sector hinges on capitalizing on the country's advantage in nature and outdoor experiences.
According to the KTB, China is a growing market, accounting for 82,180 and 83,388 arrivals in 2018 and 2019, respectively, positioning itself as Kenya's 6th largest source market. The recent reopening of the Chinese market was a great opportunity to grow air arrivals given the growing number of affluent middle-class Chinese travelers.
The KCTA has more than 500 members pulled from different sectors with the potential to influence their friends and families for both domestic and international travel.
Zhang Yuanxiang, the chairperson of the KCTA, said golf tourism is part of the rich portfolio of outdoor experiences that are proving to be a strong attraction for Chinese tourists.
"With a travel-savvy population that is willing to explore and try new experiences, Kenya stands in a great position to tap on this promising potential and consequently re-assert itself as a destination offering golf and other outdoor attractions," he added. ■