Chinese Ambassador to Ethiopia Zhao Zhiyuan (R) poses for photos with a graduate while handing over the certificate during the closing ceremony of a basic Chinese language training program in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on May 12, 2023.
Twenty-one immigration officers from the Foreigners' Service Directorate within the Ethiopian Immigration and Citizenship Service (ICS) on Friday graduated from a short-term basic Chinese language training program. (Xinhua/Michael Tewelde)
ADDIS ABABA, May 13 (Xinhua) -- Twenty-one immigration officers from the Foreigners' Service Directorate within the Ethiopian Immigration and Citizenship Service (ICS) on Friday graduated from a short-term basic Chinese language training program.
While handing over the certificates to the graduates in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, Chinese Ambassador to Ethiopia Zhao Zhiyuan said the training program will promote strategic cooperation and people-to-people relations.
"What you have achieved in the program and what you will achieve in further study will help consolidate friendship, mutual benefits and communications between the two countries," Zhao told the graduates.
Serving our Chinese brothers and sisters with the Chinese language will not only improve our customer service but also promote bilateral relationships, said Bruhtesfa Mulugeta, director general of the Ethiopian ICS.
Habtamu Seyoume, one of the graduates who is working as a supervisor at the immigration office at Bole International Airport, said he is enjoying easy communications with the Chinese customers after attending the training. "Now we communicate with them at ease to process their visa and other requirements."
The Confucius Institute at Addis Ababa University granted the three-month basic Chinese language training program to the 21 immigration officers. ■
Ethiopian immigration officers attend the closing ceremony of a basic Chinese language training program in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, May 12, 2023.
Twenty-one immigration officers from the Foreigners' Service Directorate within the Ethiopian Immigration and Citizenship Service (ICS) on Friday graduated from a short-term basic Chinese language training program. (Xinhua/Michael Tewelde)