Secretary of State to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Migration and Tunisians Abroad Mounir Ben Rjiba speaks at a reception to mark the 60th anniversary of the establishment of China-Tunisia diplomatic ties in Tunis, Tunisia, Jan. 19, 2024. (Xinhua/Huang Ling)
TUNIS, Jan. 20 (Xinhua) -- A senior Tunisian official has lauded the efficient cooperation between his country and China over the past six decades.
In a reception to mark the 60th anniversary of the establishment of China-Tunisia diplomatic ties on Friday evening, Secretary of State to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Migration and Tunisians Abroad Mounir Ben Rjiba said the two countries' cooperation in the sectors of infrastructure construction, the use of water resources and health had benefited Tunisians.
The successful meeting between the leaders of China and Tunisia at the China-Arab States Summit held in the Saudi capital of Riyadh in December 2022 has charted the course for the cooperation between the two countries in the future, he said.
In the reception hosted by the Chinese embassy to Tunisia in the Tunisian capital Tunis, Chinese Ambassador to Tunisia Wan Li said China was willing to strengthen cooperation with Tunisia in various fields, forge the broadest consensus, and jointly safeguard peace and development.
Practical cooperation between the two countries has yielded fruitful results since the establishment of their diplomatic relations 60 years ago, said the Chinese ambassador. ■
Chinese Ambassador to Tunisia Wan Li speaks at a reception to mark the 60th anniversary of the establishment of China-Tunisia diplomatic ties in Tunis, Tunisia, Jan. 19, 2024. (Xinhua/Huang Ling)
Tunisian teenagers perform at a reception to mark the 60th anniversary of the establishment of China-Tunisia diplomatic ties in Tunis, Tunisia, Jan. 19, 2024. (Xinhua/Huang Ling)
Tunisian teenagers perform at a reception to mark the 60th anniversary of the establishment of China-Tunisia diplomatic ties in Tunis, Tunisia, Jan. 19, 2024. (Xinhua/Huang Ling)