ADDIS ABABA, July 30 (Xinhua) -- Ethiopian Airlines, the flagship carrier of Ethiopia, is working to strengthen its facility and capacity to accommodate its expanding business operations through collaboration with Chinese construction companies.
The project of constructing Ethiopian Airlines Group's future headquarters is progressing steadily, with expectations for completion in August 2026, as disclosed by the Chinese project contractor, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), on Monday.
The project, which is expected to enhance the carrier's operational capabilities and statue in the aviation industry, is located inside the premises of the Addis Ababa Bole International Airport in the Ethiopian capital.
It includes six main buildings as the first phase, with a contract value of 67.8 million U.S. dollars.
Wang Peng, the project's executive manager from CCECC, said the construction began in December last year, with foundation works being carried out at the moment, adding that the project has so far generated over 500 jobs for Ethiopians.
Wang stressed the Chinese contractor's resolve for knowledge transfer and underscored the ongoing experience-sharing initiatives aimed at equipping the local workforce with the latest technologies and skills.
He also said that the project is being carried out with a strong focus on the airline's dedication to green development initiatives, aiming to follow environmentally-friendly construction principles throughout the whole process.
Ethiopian Airlines Group, Africa's largest and fastest-growing airline, is currently implementing a 15-year strategic plan, called Vision 2035. It is striving to become one of the most competitive and leading aviation groups in the world by providing safe, secure, market-driven and customer-focused passenger and cargo transport, aviation training, airport management, and ground services.
As part of its expansion activities, the Ethiopian flag carrier actively partners with a number of Chinese companies.
In May this year, the company inaugurated its 50-million-U.S. dollar domestic passenger terminal project at the Addis Ababa Bole International Airport.
The terminal expansion and renovation work, carried out by China Communications Construction Company (CCCC), expands the facility two-fold to 25,270 square meters and equips the terminal with state-of-the-art passenger handling facilities, according to the airline.
"The expansion of the airport's international terminal is being carried out at the moment too, which will be finished within a month," said Tian Zhenke, the airport project manager of CCCC, on Monday. "Three boarding gates will be added to the terminal and people's traveling experience will be greatly improved once the expansion is completed." ■