CAIRO, Nov. 19 (Xinhua) -- Chinese cinema continues to flourish, with a strong presence at the 45th Cairo International Film Festival (CIFF), according to Egyptian actor and festival president Hussein Fahmy. He expressed optimism about deepening cooperation between Egypt and China in the film industry.
"I am very interested in cooperation with the Chinese side, which has been ongoing for years. Chinese films have consistently been a part of the Cairo festival," Fahmy said in a recent interview with Xinhua during the event.
He noted that CIFF has established partnerships with two major Chinese film festivals, the Beijing International Film Festival and the Shanghai International Film Festival.
These collaborations could pave the way for joint film productions, as well as enhanced exchanges of artistic and cultural expertise, jury members, and industry guests, he said.
"Whether through documentaries or feature films, our joint efforts will undoubtedly contribute to the growth of both Egyptian and Chinese cinema, while also strengthening people-to-people connections between our nations," Fahmy remarked.
One of this year's festival highlights is Chinese Cinema Week, launched on the second day of the event, which runs from Nov. 13 to 22 at the Cairo Opera House. The week opened with a screening of the Chinese film Decoded, directed by Chen Sicheng, who was honored with the CIFF's Golden Pyramid Award.
Other Chinese films screened during the week include Evacuate from the 21st Century, G for Gap, Lighting Up the Stars, and Viva La Vida. Additionally, Chinese film Brief History of a Family, directed by Lin Jianjie, is competing in the International Critics' Week Competition alongside entries from Egypt, Chile, Greece, Morocco, Ireland, Argentina, and France.
Fahmy expressed his admiration for Chinese cinema, noting his long-standing interest since his days as a student at the cinema institute. He praised China's use of advanced production technologies, which have even been employed in restoring vintage Egyptian black-and-white films.
"Egyptian cinema has a long and storied history, supported by a strong cinematic infrastructure and skilled professionals. Cooperation between Egyptian and Chinese cinemas will undoubtedly be mutually beneficial," he said.
Launched in 1976, the CIFF is one of the oldest film festivals in the Arab world, Africa, and the Middle East. This year's edition features around 190 films from more than 70 countries and regions, according to the festival's president. ■