by Hua Hongli, Lucas Liganga
KILIMANJARO, Tanzania, Feb. 4 (Xinhua) -- As the Chinese Spring Festival approaches, more Chinese are heading to Tanzania to celebrate this traditional festival of paramount importance for the Chinese people.
Wang Shupeng, a 40-year-old father of twin daughters from Beijing, said his trip to the African country with his wife and twin daughters has left an indelible mark in their memories.
"My family and I decided to visit Tanzania for relaxation and to see animals. It is our first time here and we are enjoying it," said Wang, referring to Serval Wildlife, a wildlife sanctuary located in the Siha district of the Kilimanjaro region at the foot of Mount Kilimanjaro, Africa's highest mountain.
The sanctuary is home to a diverse range of animals, including African lions, colobus monkeys, wildebeests, and giraffes.
"We have already visited Mwanza, the Serengeti National Park and we are now at the sanctuary where we are enjoying seeing a variety of animals in the wild," said Xiao Xuan, Wang's wife, adding that the trip is of great significance for her 12-year-old little daughter Wang Yuxin who has dreamed of becoming a zoologist since she was very young.
"The place has satisfied all the imagination I used to have about the animal world because I have seen so many varieties of animals that we can't see in China, including herbivores and carnivores such as leopards and lions," Yuxin said, noting that her passion about animals will be stronger and stronger.
Wang Yutang, Yuxin's twin sister, expressed her longing for spending the Chinese Spring Festival in Tanzania as the country is excellent in terms of tourism, and it will be an experience she has never had before.
Fahad Nassor Hamud, director of Serval Wildlife, said the Chinese are among the leading visitors to the sanctuary, especially during the Chinese Spring Festival. "Most of our visitors from overseas are Chinese who make up to 80 percent of the visitors," said Hamud.
As a nation with rich tourism resources, Tanzania attracts many tourists from across China to see stunning attractions every year, including Serengeti, Kilimanjaro, Ngorongoro Conservation Area, and Zanzibar with its glorious white beaches and historic sites, including the Stone Town.
A 62-year-old Chinese man surnamed Yang was also excited after he arrived in Zanzibar with his wife.
"Tanzania is a magical country we have been looking forward to traveling to," said Yang, laughing when describing the trip as a new honeymoon for him and his wife.
Tanzania has taken measures to promote its tourism industry, which contributes 25 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings and 17.5 percent of its gross domestic product, said Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism Angellah Kairuki.
Thereza Mugobi, director of tourism in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, said the number of Chinese tourists visiting Tanzania increased by 32.4 percent from 33,541 in 2019 to 44,438 in 2023.
China is a strategic market for Tanzania's tourism, Mugobi told Xinhua in an interview via phone.
"We appointed Chinese actor Jin Dong to be our tourism goodwill ambassador," she said, adding that Tanzania has been organizing familiarization trips for the Chinese travel agents to visit the country to bolster business relations. ■