by Mahmoud Fouly
CAIRO, March 18 (Xinhua) -- Chinese-made, toy-like "Ramadan lanterns" with LED lights and recorded Arabic songs, as well as similar children's toys, are popular in Egypt during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, as they are used as gifts for children.
Mostafa Mamdouh, a salesman at a store in the capital Cairo selling toys and household items, told Xinhua that "Chinese products are distinguished by their affordability and variety. They meet the needs of various Egyptian customers."
"Battery-run lanterns and toys, as well as decorative LED strips and paper-cutting designs, are among the most popular Chinese products during Ramadan," he added.
Larger ornamental lanterns and paper-cutting decorations are used to brighten homes, streets, and stores throughout the special month.
Manal Mohamed, a 37-year-old housewife, said she bought a colorful, rotating lantern to place in a corner of her home reception as an ornament.
"I also bought a toy for my little nephew. These attractive products add to the Ramadan joyful atmosphere," she added, noting that they were all made in China.
Ramadan lanterns, or "fanoos" in Arabic, originated in Egypt during the Fatimid caliphate hundreds of years ago to light up dark streets, and later became traditional children's toys for outdoor playing on Ramadan evenings.
Over the past few years, Egypt has been struggling to curb rising inflation which reached 35.7 percent in February compared to 29.8 percent in January, amid price hikes and a shortage of hard currency needed for imports.
With the government's attempts to reduce imports, Egyptian manufacturers started to produce ornamental shapes of Ramadan lanterns that used to be imported from China. However, new shapes of colorful, bright, battery-operated, moving, and talking Ramadan lanterns and toys prevailing in the Egyptian market are mostly made in China.
"Chinese products are characterized by more advanced manufacturing technology and better finishing," said Mohamed Hassan, undersecretary of the division of stationery and children's toys at Cairo Chamber of Commerce.
He expected future cooperation with Chinese partners in the field of children's toy production, in light of the growing relations between Cairo and Beijing. "It will help with the transfer of relevant Chinese advanced technology to Egypt."
China is one of Egypt's biggest trading partners. In 2023, the volume of trade exchange between the two countries hit about 15.8 billion U.S. dollars, according to Chinese official data.
Ramadan lanterns and toys are not the only Chinese-made products popular in Egypt, as the Egyptian market is filled with mobile phones and accessories, home appliances, household essentials, and other products all imported from China.
"Most cell phone accessories, such as cases, screen protectors, headphones, and chargers come from China, while Chinese mobile phone brands have become popular in Egypt too," Mohamed Samir, a veteran salesman at a mobile phone store in Giza, told Xinhua. ■