NAIROBI, April 23 (Xinhua) -- Technology experts on Tuesday lauded China's electric mobility (e-mobility) technology as Kenyans continue to embrace green modes of transport.
Alex Wachira, principal secretary in the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum, said in Nairobi, the capital of Kenya, that Chinese electric vehicles (EVs) have emerged as a viable alternative to traditional fossil fuel-based automobiles.
"I want to congratulate all the Chinese firms with local assembly operations because they have played a role in increasing the uptake of EVs in the country," Wachira said during the second edition of the Kenya Power E-Mobility Conference.
The two-day conference brought together more than 200 delegates, including government officials, donors, and e-mobility experts from across the globe, to review innovative and transformative solutions to decarbonize the transport sector.
Hezbon Mose, chair of the Electric Mobility Association of Kenya, said there are currently about 40 companies selling electric bicycles and vehicles due to the rising demand for green transport.
"The majority of these EVs source their components from China because they offer competitive pricing," Mose said.
He noted that there are about 10,000 electric bicycles and vehicles in the country, and the figure is expected to cross the 20,000 mark by the end of the year.
Joseph Siror, managing director of Kenya Power, the state-owned utility, said Chinese EVs have established a reputation as reliable cars in the Kenyan market.
"I have a high regard for Chinese manufacturers, as their quality of products is as good as that of any other country," Siror added.
He noted that Kenya Power has so far procured seven EVs from China because they are price-competitive.
Siror revealed that the use of EVs in Kenya represents a double win, as over 90 percent of the country's electricity is generated from renewable energy sources.
Jit Bhattacharya, chief executive officer of BasiGo, a Kenyan startup, said China is a global leader in e-mobility technology and has developed vehicles that make economic sense for Kenya's transportation sector.
Bhattacharya noted that his company currently has 21 electric buses on Kenyan roads that were built with components and technology from China.
"We have also partnered with Chinese original equipment manufacturers who will help us deliver 1,000 high-quality commercial buses in the next three years," he added. ■