NAIROBI, Nov. 6 (Xinhua) -- Once a quiet, dusty town in Turkana County in northwestern Kenya, Lodwar is now humming with life, thanks to a road built by several Chinese firms.
Stretching about 300 km from Kitale to Lodwar, the road has sparked a surge in business and tourism, boosting the local hospitality sector. The road has made it easier for people, vehicles, and goods to flow freely, further fueling the region's growth.
"We are grateful for this road," Julia Akorilem, who runs a guesthouse in Lodwar town, told Xinhua in a recent interview.
Akorilem recalled that before the road was constructed, the guesthouse would remain vacant for weeks. "Ever since it was opened for use about two years ago, I have never lacked visitors in my guesthouse."
The Kitale-Lodwar road has made it easier for tourists and business travelers to journey from Nairobi, the capital, to Lodwar. Some transport companies have also started operations from the town to other Kenyan regions, including Eldoret and Nairobi.
"It costs 19.3 U.S. dollars from Lodwar to Nairobi, down from double the amount before the road was built," John Munyasa, a tout in Lodwar, said as he scouted for customers. "The bus leaves the town in the evening and spends the night in Lokichar before proceeding to Nairobi the following morning."
The food business is another sector that has massively benefitted from the good road network as agricultural products, mainly grown in the area located over 300 km away, can reach the arid area consistently and on time.
Josephine Njuguna, a trader, said they get their supplies delivered every evening from Kitale, which has boosted their businesses and the nutrition statuses of residents as families that initially fed on livestock products only can readily access vegetables.
The road construction began in 2001, funded by the Kenyan government and the World Bank at a cost of 100 billion Kenyan shillings (about 775.2 million dollars).
A slew of Chinese companies, including China State Construction Engineering Corporation Ltd., Third Engineering Bureau of China City Construction Group, China Henan International Corporation Group, and Chongqing International Construction Corporation, contributed to the construction of various sections of the road.
According to the Kenya National Highway Authority (KeNHA), the Kitale-Lodwar road is part of the effort to link Kenya, Tanzania, and South Sudan, also known as the "Sirari Corridor."
The corridor stretches from Isebania on the border with Tanzania, through Kisii Kisumu, northward to Kitale, Lokichar, Lodwar, and Nakodok, ultimately reaching Juba in South Sudan.
KeNHA said the goal of this project is to facilitate the cross-border movement of people and goods, fostering faster integration within the East African Community.
Kenyan President William Ruto said during a recent visit to Turkana that the government would further expand infrastructure in the area to boost economic activities. ■