Doctors from the 12th Chinese medical team examines a child at the Juba Orphanage in Juba, South Sudan, Sept. 28, 2024. (Photo by Denis Elamu/Xinhua)
JUBA, Sept. 29 (Xinhua) -- Since South Sudan gained independence in 2011, Chinese medical teams have been playing a crucial role in providing essential healthcare services to vulnerable children in the world's youngest country.
The arrival of the 12th Chinese medical team in the capital city of Juba on Sept. 4 has brought renewed hope to orphanages struggling with a lack of affordable healthcare options.
Taking over from the outgoing 11th team, which returned to east China's Anhui Province, the new group wasted no time in continuing the tradition of offering free medical care to orphaned children.
Ana Buri, 17, is one of the many beneficiaries of this outreach at Confident Children out of Conflict (CCC). Buri, who fled her family to escape early forced marriage, shared how successive Chinese medical teams have become a crucial source of support at her orphanage, not just through donations of food and clothes but also through much-needed medical care.
"Medical services here are extremely expensive, and without the help of the Chinese teams, many of the orphans would not receive the needed care," Buri said.
The medical team's impact extends beyond the children. Julius Yanga, security advisor at Juba Orphanage, received immediate treatment for persistent back pain during the team's recent visit.
Founded in 1962 during Sudan's first civil war, Juba Orphanage is located next to Juba Teaching Hospital, where the Chinese medical teams are based. According to Yanga, the orphanage has struggled to access routine medical care for children due to high costs at local hospitals, but the Chinese team has made a big difference today by treating the sick children.
Yanga noted that many of the children at the orphanage suffer from malaria and typhoid, and the 12th Chinese medical team's visit helped alleviate the burden of medical expenses.
Hellen Murshal Boro, executive director of CCC, echoed similar sentiments, emphasizing the high cost of healthcare in private clinics. She noted that Chinese medical teams have consistently offered free medical support to the children, despite the complex ailments they often deal with, including common diseases like malaria, fever, and respiratory infections.
"The support we receive from the Chinese teams is indispensable," Boro said. "Each year, the outgoing team introduces us to the incoming team, and they immediately step in to help."
Du Changyong, leader of the 12th Chinese medical team, explained that beyond providing care at Juba's main referral hospital, the team also visits orphanages to donate supplies and offer medical services.
"It means a lot for us to carry out these kinds of activities. The cooperation between the two countries starts with people-to-people exchanges," Du said, adding that his team is committed to delivering medical care services across 10 states, despite facing harsh conditions.
The Chinese medical teams have been delivering healthcare services to South Sudanese communities for over a decade, not only through direct medical outreach but also by providing capacity-building training to local doctors. Their efforts serve as a symbol of the growing ties between China and South Sudan. ■
A doctor from the 12th Chinese medical team examines a child at the Juba Orphanage in Juba, South Sudan, Sept. 28, 2024. (Photo by Denis Elamu/Xinhua)