NAIROBI, March 15 (Xinhua) -- The fifth edition of the Chinese spelling bee competition was held Friday at the United States International University-Africa (USIU-A), a private university based in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital, attracting contestants from primary, secondary and tertiary institutions.
Besides testing young learners' proficiency in written and spoken Mandarin, the half-day event also featured cultural performances, including a lion dance and kung fu.
Held annually since 2020, the Chinese spelling bee competition has attracted more than 500 Kenyan primary, high school, and college students to help promote their understanding of the Chinese language and culture.
The competition was started by two local Chinese language teachers, namely Wanjiku Mbugua, who teaches Mandarin (standard Chinese language) at USIU-A, and Faith Mworia, director of the Nairobi-based Discovery Chinese Cultural Training Center. "We have seen that our students are continuously improving and are able to read the Chinese language and characters. (They) are also able to give the correct diction. This time, what was different was the improvement in the language," Mbugua said.
The fifth edition of the Chinese spelling bee attracted more sponsors, said Mbugua, adding that in the future, she looked forward to improved Sino-Kenyan cultural bonds, anchored on academic exchanges. Mbugua also said that plans are on course to boost Chinese language training at the grassroots, given China's growing clout in the East African country across many spheres, including trade and infrastructure development.
Henry Rotich, chairman of the Kenya-China Alumni Association, said proficiency in the Chinese language has enabled Kenyan youth to immerse themselves in a rich tapestry of culture, history and traditions, improving their worldview.
According to Rotich, local youth who strive to improve their proficiency in Mandarin stand a better chance to seize business and job opportunities in an interconnected world. "Kenyans who can communicate effectively in Chinese serve as bridges between our two nations, fostering mutual understanding and cooperation on both personal and professional levels," Rotich said. ■