LUSAKA, Dec. 3 (Xinhua) -- A conference on China's experience in the development of renewable energy was held in Zambia Tuesday as part of efforts to help the African continent diversify its energy mix.
The 2024 Conference on China-Africa New Energy Development and International Industry-Education Integration was organized by the Shanghai University of Electric Power in collaboration with Zambia's National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA) under the auspices of the Global Energy Interconnection Development and Cooperation Organization (GEIDCO).
The conference brought together participants from academia, industry practitioners, and policymakers to exchange views on the development of renewable energy, while also involving participants from Kenya, Nigeria, and South Africa who followed the proceedings virtually.
Gu Chunhua, president of Shanghai University of Electric Power, said the conference was aimed at leveraging the expertise of the university in renewable energy and integrating China's achievements and technical research in renewable energy with Zambia's universities and related companies.
"Through this cooperation, we aim to contribute to the development of Zambia's new energy sector, particularly by maximizing the utilization of its abundant solar and hydropower resources," he said.
According to him, the initiative aligns with the outcomes of the 2024 Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) where Zambia signed a number of agreements on building capacity in the country's energy development, adding that the holding of the conference was a concrete step to implement the outcomes of the FOCAC and directives by leaders of the two countries.
He said the university has received support from GEIDCO which has a deep understanding of the energy development status in African countries and has established a solid foundation on the continent.
He said the university plans to take into account the specific conditions on the continent and help Zambia and other African countries to maximize the utilization of new energy resources to support power supply and green ecological construction.
Mwape Chipala, acting permanent secretary in Zambia's Ministry of Energy, expressed gratitude that the agreements signed by Zambia in China have started yielding fruits.
He said Zambia stands ready to harness the different opportunities provided by China, noting that the country's energy sector was facing complex challenges due to a decline in hydroelectricity generation caused by poor rains.
Executive Director of NIPA Jacob Malungo said the energy development is at a cross-road where innovation, collaboration, and sustainability are pivotal.
He said the conference was looking at cultivating global partnerships for renewable energy transition, adding that Zambia was facing unprecedented climate change challenges which have affected rain patterns and resulted in reduced hydroelectricity generation. ■