by Olatunji Saliu
LAGOS, Aug. 28 (Xinhua) -- Isabella Adams-Israel stepped out of her apartment in Nigeria's southwestern state of Lagos on a late July morning, ready for another day on the rails.
For the 30-year-old mother of one, driving trains is not just a job, but a dream come true. Over the past three years, she has enjoyed the excitement and fulfillment of being the country's first female driver of an electric multiple-unit train.
"My experience has been good, challenging, and most especially, fun -- because it is like practicing what I love to do every day," she said in an interview with Xinhua during her "warm-up" at the iconic Marina Station of the Lagos Rail Mass Transit (LRMT) Blue Line, a China-built electric-powered light rail network.
She described the "warm-up" as the preparation before a train's departure. "I am privileged to be driving passengers, including students, business officials and dignitaries," she said, adding that she runs up to 54 trips daily.
The story of Adams-Israel, like many others fueled by the cooperation between China and Nigeria, exemplifies the success of bilateral collaboration.
Her fascination with trains began in 2018 when she joined the local branch of China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC). Initially working in the train signal and telecommunication department, she was captivated by the sight of trains in motion and knew she wanted to be part of it.
Her passion was not without impediments, one of which, she said, was the challenge of convincing her husband to support her relocation from Abuja to Lagos, to pursue her dream.
"He initially doubted me, saying it was a man's job. But after some persuasion, he supported me, and we made the move," she said, noting that it was a decision that led to the beginning of "a happy life."
After eight months of classroom training and three months of hands-on experience, she faced her most daunting test: driving a train solo while being observed by officials from the Nigerian Railway Corporation. "The pressure was immense, but I proved myself, and from then on, I was frequently entrusted with the train."
Constructed by CCECC in July 2010 and completed in December 2022, the first phase of the LRMT Blue Line corridor spans 13 km and covers five stations. It began commercial operation in September of 2023. As a symbolic project of the Belt and Road Initiative, the Blue Line project is the first electrified railroad and cross-sea light rail project in West Africa.
Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, during the project's commissioning in September 2023, said that the light rail was expected to reduce travel time, improve the quality of life for citizens, and help make Lagos one of the most resilient megacities in Africa.
Adams-Israel takes pride in her role, especially in watching the excitement of children boarding her train. "It is a privilege to serve and make a difference in people's lives," she said, adding that the Blue Line's success has improved commuter convenience and raised public awareness about train travel, inspiring many who had never experienced a train before.
Thanks to the rigorous training from her Chinese and local mentors, covering everything from train mechanics to emergency protocols, Adams-Israel is now confident in her ability to handle challenges that arise while driving. She has gained experience with various types of trains.
Looking ahead, she expressed her desire to "gain more knowledge and experience in train operations globally, especially in China." ■