NAIROBI, April 26 (Xinhua) -- Huawei, a Chinese telecommunications company, on Friday launched enhanced networking solutions for its Kenyan clients, including state agencies, listed firms, small and medium sized enterprises, in order to boost the growth of the local digital economy.
Kevin Wenkai, managing director of Huawei East Africa Enterprise, said the launch of the new features of the company's Internet Protocol (IP) and OptiX products and solutions in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital, will boost the country's quest to become a digital economy hub that promises jobs and prosperity to all citizens.
"The enhanced networking solutions designed for our Kenyan clients will boost the quality of digital services. We are committed to improved and secure connectivity for homes, businesses and public institutions," Wenkai said.
He said that enhanced networking solutions will guarantee data privacy among clients, boost the speed and reliability of internet connections, and unlock the growth of local technology start-ups.
Loyford Muriithi, information and communications technology (ICT) director in Kenya's Ministry of Information, Communications and the Digital Economy, said the government is committed to partnerships with industry players like Huawei in its bid to expand connectivity, improve the digital skills of the youth and automate key sectors like manufacturing, finance, health and education.
Muriithi said that Huawei has aided in the implementation of a digital superhighway anchored on establishing 100,000 kilometers of fiber optics alongside digital villages and public WiFi hotspots.
In addition, Muriithi said that private sector investment in both hardware and software has promoted digital literacy and innovations, unlocking sustainable incomes for the youth.
Zhang Liang, the chief expert of Data Communication Artificial Intelligence (AI) Algorithms at Huawei, said that the deployment of AI-enabled networking solutions is expected to inject vitality into Kenya's digital economy.
According to Zhang, the launch of advanced Internet protocols will improve the network's speed, stability and security, enabling businesses and state agencies to scale up and sustain online transactions.
Martin Mirero, director of ICT at Communications Authority of Kenya, a state-owned ICT regulatory agency, said that the enactment of sound policies and regulations has spurred private sector investments in digital infrastructure.
Mirero said that Huawei's advanced networking solutions that guarantee better user experience and productivity will boost Kenya's efforts to establish a sustainable digital society. ■