ADDIS ABABA, March 9 (Xinhua) -- The 2024 Chinese Short-term Training Seminars for the African Union (AU) were jointly launched by the Chinese Mission to the AU and the AU Commission (AUC).
The launch took place on Friday at the AU headquarters in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, under the theme "Contribute to African Talent Cultivation, Promote Modernization of Africa," in the presence of AU officials and staff as well as members of the Chinese Mission to the AU.
The short-term training seminars to be offered in different provinces of China are the extension of the training programs that were disrupted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The China-sponsored training programs and seminars aim to empower the staff of the continental body in various fields and create a community of shared future.
Mohammed Belhocine, AU commissioner for education, science, technology and innovation, said during the occasion that China has been playing an important role in promoting joint cooperation with the AU and its members, notably under the framework of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC).
"These proposed training sessions are instrumental in promoting mutual understanding and improving the effectiveness of cooperation frameworks that exist between the AU and China," Belhocine said.
Noting that the AUC will shortly sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with China's Ministry of Science and Technology to further cooperate in science and technology, the commissioner said the China-sponsored training programs and seminars will foster stronger cooperation and contribute to the realization of the AU's 50-year continental development blueprint, Agenda 2063.
"The seminars are to be provided in different languages, showing China's commitment to adapting to the needs of the AU and promoting sustainable development across the continent," he said.
Recalling that education is key to promoting sustainable development, peace, and freedom, the commissioner said the training will focus on food security, governance, digitalization, technology and innovation, green economy, disaster reduction, and human resource management, among others.
Appreciating the Chinese government for coming up with such an initiative to empower the AU staff, Steve Lalande, director of the Partnership Development and Resource Mobilization Department of the AUC, said the AU-China cooperation has seen improvement over time.
He said the training opportunity comes as the AUC is undertaking a reform to improve its efficiency and service delivery among its various departments and organs.
For his part, Hu Changchun, head of the Chinese Mission to the AU and representative of China to the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, said the short-term training seminars will focus on human capital development in Africa.
"China is ready to provide 1,000 training programs involving talent development, trade, information technology, 5G communications, radio satellite, and mobile payment, among others," said Hu.
He said China attaches great importance to people-centered development in Africa and remains to be a strategic partner of the AUC. ■