Bernadetta Ndunguru, chairperson of the National Council for Technical and Vocational Education and Training (NACTVET) governing council, speaks at the China-Africa Second TVET Academic Exchange Seminar held in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, June 3, 2024. (Photo by Emmanuel Herman/Xinhua)
DAR ES SALAAM, June 3 (Xinhua) -- Tanzania on Monday pledged to enhance collaboration with China in developing technical and vocational education and training (TVET) to meet local and international standards for graduates.
James Mdoe, the deputy permanent secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, said China is an exemplary country with robust TVET systems that have significantly contributed to Tanzania's rapid economic development.
Speaking at the China-Africa Second TVET Academic Exchange Seminar in the port city of Dar es Salaam, Mdoe said Tanzania will benefit from establishing collaborations with Chinese TVET colleges to improve the quality of training.
He said that sustaining investments in the country requires a skilled workforce, including for strategic projects.
Adolf Rutayuga, executive secretary of the National Council for Technical and Vocational Education and Training (NACTVET), said that the seminar aims to strengthen TVET collaborations between Tanzania and China, improving education to produce skilled graduates capable of meeting national and international labor market demands.
Tanzania currently has 475 technical institutions, 835 vocational institutions and 96 vocational secondary schools.
Bernadetta Ndunguru, chairperson of the NACTVET governing council, stressed the importance of establishing strong partnerships, sharing resources and fostering collaboration to nurture a new generation of skilled professionals who will drive innovation, entrepreneurship, and sustainable economic growth.
"Let us seize this opportunity to build strong partnerships, identify areas of common interest, and develop joint initiatives that will propel TVET to the forefront of sustainable economic development," she said.
The seminar, attended by representatives from Tanzanian TVET institutions and Chinese vocational colleges, was organized by the China-Africa Vocational Education Alliance in collaboration with the Sunmarker Institute from China. ■