Kenya's Gichohi Isaiah Ndungu competes in the 2024 Zhangjiajie Wulingyuan Marathon held at the Zhangjiajie National Forest Park in Zhangjiajie, central China's Hunan Province, on April 21, 2024. (Xinhua/Chen Sihan)
CHANGSHA, April 21 (Xinhua) -- Kenya's Gichohi Isaiah Ndungu and Wambui Nancy Wanjiru emerged as the men's and women's champions at the Zhangjiajie Wulingyuan Marathon on Sunday.
Thousands of runners from home and abroad participated in marathon, half marathon, 10km and 5km fun run events at the Wulingyuan scenic area, a UNESCO World Heritage Site in central China's Hunan Province.
The race started and ended at the Wujiayu Ticket Station Square in the Zhangjiajie National Forest Park. Ndungu triumphed in the men's marathon in two hours 20 minutes and 55 seconds, while his compatriot Wanjiru emerged victorious in the women's event in 2:43:25.
As one of the first national sports tourism demonstration areas, the Wulingyuan scenic area has developed several high-profile sports events in recent years, including the slackline race, high ladder rope swinging challenge, and cycling through peak forest event. ■
Participants take part in the 2024 Zhangjiajie Wulingyuan Marathon held at the Zhangjiajie National Forest Park in Zhangjiajie, central China's Hunan Province, on April 21, 2024. (Xinhua/Chen Sihan)
A participant gestures to the camera during the 2024 Zhangjiajie Wulingyuan Marathon held at the Zhangjiajie National Forest Park in Zhangjiajie, central China's Hunan Province, on April 21, 2024. (Xinhua/Chen Sihan)
Participants take part in the 2024 Zhangjiajie Wulingyuan Marathon held at the Zhangjiajie National Forest Park in Zhangjiajie, central China's Hunan Province, on April 21, 2024. (Xinhua/Chen Sihan)
An aerial drone photo taken on April 21, 2024 shows participants taking part in the 2024 Zhangjiajie Wulingyuan Marathon held at the Zhangjiajie National Forest Park in Zhangjiajie, central China's Hunan Province. (Xinhua/Chen Sihan)
An aerial drone photo taken on April 21, 2024 shows a view of 2024 Zhangjiajie Wulingyuan Marathon held at the Zhangjiajie National Forest Park in Zhangjiajie, central China's Hunan Province. (Xinhua/Chen Sihan)