LILONGWE, Sept. 28 (Xinhua) -- Receiving China-aided equipment, the Malawian government inaugurated the second phase of its satellite TV project on Friday.
A handover ceremony was held in the capital city of Lilongwe, where Malawian Secretary for Information and Digitalization Baldwin Chiyamwaka received the equipment on behalf of the government.
Following the ceremony, the Chinese company StarTimes will undertake the distribution and installation of the satellite TV equipment to 200 villages by the end of the year, said Pan Zebin, StarTimes' chief executive officer in Malawi.
According to Pan, the company will install 4,000 digital decoders, 400 solar projection satellite TV systems and 200 digital TVs for free in public areas and households of the 200 villages.
As part of the Access to Satellite TV for 10,000 African Villages program, the project in Malawi successfully completed its first phase in 2019.
During the first phase, StarTimes equipped 500 villages across Malawi with satellite TV sets, and trained a number of local technicians.
Zhang Chunfa, economic and commercial counsellor at the Chinese Embassy in Malawi, called the implementation of the project "a concrete reflection" of the friendship and cooperation between China and Malawi.
Chiyamwaka said the handover is a "clear reflection" of the Chinese government's commitment to supporting the development of Malawi.
The equipment represents far more than technological infrastructure, as "it is a powerful tool for improving access to information," Chiyamwaka said.
He said the installation of satellite TV will enable rural communities in Malawi to have greater access to vital information, including news, education, health and government services.
"This access will empower people in remote areas to make informed decisions, stay connected with national developments, and participate fully in our country's progress," said Chiyamwaka.
The project of Access to Satellite TV for 10,000 African Villages was conceived during the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation summit in Johannesburg, South Africa, in 2015. ■