by Arison Tamfu, Wang Ze
YAOUNDE, Sept. 4 (Xinhua) -- The Cameroonian capital of Yaounde is witnessing a revival thanks to several China-funded projects.
These projects have become game-changers, spurring business, saving commuting time and providing healthcare for citizens of the Central African nation.
SPORTS COMPLEX
At the heart of Yaounde sits an imposing indoor sports arena called Yaounde Multipurpose Sports Complex. Inaugurated in 2009 with Chinese aid, the magnificent structure has become a landmark building in Cameroon.
"The complex is a wonderful gift from the Chinese people, and our technical team will, as always, endeavor to do a good job in maintaining the project and in the training of personnel," said Cai Zhenhua, head of the technical support team for the complex from China's Shanxi Construction Investment Group.
"In a word, the sports complex is called the 'temple of sports and culture' because we host all types of events," said Henri Mbappe Dibongue, general manager of the sports arena, adding that the complex has remained intact for 15 years thanks to Chinese experts who continue to do maintenance work.
With over 5,000 seats, the sports complex has hosted major international events, including the African Women's Handball Cup of Nations and the African Nations Volleyball Championship. In November, the complex will host the African Open 2024, a competition organized by the International Judo Federation.
To Alain Christian Kingue, the national coach of the Cameroon Judo Federation, the complex has given Cameroonian athletes new visibility.
"Thanks to the infrastructure, we could have this type of competition in Cameroon. The African Judo Union also organizes the African Judo Championships here, which means that the two umbrella bodies that manage judo on the continental and global level trust Cameroon," Kingue said.
Thanks to the country's relationship with China, "we can play high-level sports in Cameroon," he said.
WATER PLANT
The water crisis is prevalent in Yaounde. The city currently receives a daily supply of 185,000 cubic meters of water, which falls short of the demand estimated at 250,000 cubic meters, according to the country's Ministry of Water and Energy.
Long queues for water are a common sight in the city, which roughly 4 million people inhabit.
But the crisis might soon be over.
On August 20, the country's Minister of Water and Energy Gaston Eloundou Essomba commissioned a major China-funded water plant to solve Yaounde's drinking water shortage problem and improve livelihoods.
Built by China Machinery Engineering Corporation, the plant's daily water treatment capacity is 300,000 cubic meters, enough to serve more than 2.5 million residents of Yaounde and its surrounding towns.
"This is one of the most important projects in Cameroon. Supply will now be largely above demand. We project that the water plant will continue to satisfy the needs of the population till 2040," Essomba said during the official ceremony in Batchenga locality, where the water plant is located.
"Our citizens will be able to drink clean water that will be constantly supplied," he said. "China has always been a good partner and friend of Cameroon."
HEALTH FACILITY
Yaounde is home to the Yaounde Gyneco-Obstetrics and Pediatric Hospital, a China-funded project that officially opened in 2002.
Cameroon's premier medical institution is dedicated to gynecology, obstetrics and pediatrics. Established to provide high-quality healthcare services, the hospital has become a cornerstone for maternal and child health.
"Chinese medical teams constantly work at the hospital," said Eunice Nchang, who works there. "They share their expertise for the well-being of many Cameroonians. This is real support in a context where Cameroonian hospitals lack qualified personnel and equipment."
"This bilateral cooperation with the government of China is very good," said Robinson Mbu Enow, the hospital's director-general, "and we are really getting the best of it."
EXPRESSWAY
To alleviate traffic congestion, the Yaounde government planned an expressway linking the city to Yaounde Nsimalen International Airport. China Communications Construction Company was awarded the contract.
The expressway, now called Yaounde-Nsimalen Expressway, has been partially opened to traffic.
It has reduced the travel time between Yaounde and Nsimalen to only 15 minutes, compared to 45 minutes in the past and allowed the development of new business zones along the road.
"The expressway is magnificent. It has completely changed our lives here. This place used to be a bush, but there are now buildings and businesses everywhere. People are scrambling for land and business sites along the road," said Jean-Claude Atangana, a resident of the Ahala neighborhood located along the expressway.
Celestine Ketcha Courtes, Cameroon's minister of Housing and Urban Development, praised the "quality of the construction" and called it a testament to the "solid friendship between Cameroon and China."
The project has so far impacted the capital's administrative communes of Yaounde III, Yaounde IV, Mfou and Bikok and "significantly" enhanced economic activities throughout the city, said economist Johnson Molua.
"Business persons now get to and from the airport in no time. This is important for business. When works are fully completed, it will considerably improve the business climate in Yaounde," Molua said.
PARLIAMENT BUILDING
In 2017, Cameroon's parliament building was partially ravaged by fire. Two years later, House Speaker of the National Assembly Cavaye Yeguie Djibril laid the groundwork for a new parliamentary complex with China's fund.
Workers are currently busy on the project undertaken by Beijing Urban Construction Group, which includes the construction of a 400-seat hemicycle and a 14-story building.
"Work has progressed so fast, and the building is almost completed. Our Chinese partners are really committed to respecting deadlines," said Theodore Datouo, deputy speaker of Cameroon's National Assembly, who also chairs a committee overseeing the project's construction.
Djibril said the new architectural jewel will contribute to the beautification of the capital and would help "consolidate bilateral relations." Djibril said the project was "at the finishing stage."
Datouo told Xinhua that China is a "sincere" and "important partner" for Cameroon.
"The capital is truly changing thanks to China-Cameroon cooperation. And importantly, all projects executed by China are intact and reflect national needs," he said, adding that China has built dams, hospitals, roads and stadiums in the country.
"These Chinese projects have not only created employment opportunities for residents of Yaounde, but essentially, there has been a transfer of skills and technology," said the economist Molua, "which to me is a true benefit of this partnership." ■