NAIROBI, Sept. 11 (Xinhua) -- Chinese smartphone brand Tecno on Tuesday announced the renewal of a partnership with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to enhance access to quality education among young refugees in Africa.
Tecno said its support through the primary education program will benefit more than 7,000 children in Kenya out of the 11,500 new refugee students expected to enroll in 2024, helping them realize their full potential to thrive in adulthood.
"In collaboration with partners like Tecno, the UNHCR is committed to enrolling over 55,000 out-of-school children in primary schools in Dadaab and Kakuma camps over the next four years," the two sides said in a joint statement released Tuesday night.
Tecno, which is backing UNHCR's flagship Refugee Scholarships Program known as DAFI, said its financial support in 2024 is already helping bolster UNHCR's efforts to improve educational outcomes for refugee children in Kenya.
"This is being achieved through the provision of scholastic materials for students, hygiene kits for girls, infrastructure construction, as well as resources for teachers and school activities," Tecno said.
The partnership was established in 2020 to provide high-quality, protective education for African refugee children and young people.
Over the past four years, the partnership has reached 17,370 refugee children and 40 refugee DAFI scholars, as well as provided support to teachers and school infrastructure, the two organizations said.
Jack Guo, general manager of Tecno, said the company is dedicated to giving back to local communities in Africa through practical initiatives. "We believe that education is the key to changing the destiny of refugee children and serves as the foundation for rebuilding their lives. Investing in primary education now will support a sustainable future and brighter tomorrow."
Kenya, which had hosted 774,370 refugees and asylum seekers as of May, is the fifth largest refugee-hosting country in Africa, according to UNHCR.
Adriani Wahjanto, UNHCR deputy representative in China, welcomed the renewal of the pact, whose sustained support is crucial in bridging gaps in access to quality education and creating opportunities for refugee children.
"We hope this extended partnership will inspire more private sector actors to contribute not only funding but also expertise, as well as use their networks and influence, to help build a brighter future for people forced to flee," Wahjanto said. ■