by Tafara Mugwara
BULAWAYO, Zimbabwe, April 25 (Xinhua) -- Zimbabwe is eager to tap into China's experience in driving development through innovation as the country strives to realize industrialization, a senior government official has said.
In an interview with Xinhua on Wednesday on the sidelines of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) underway in Bulawayo, Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development Amon Murwira said China has played a critical role in promoting innovation through talent cultivation and capacity building in Zimbabwe.
"We are very grateful for the opportunities to exchange ideas through innovation," Murwira said.
The ZITF, running from Tuesday to Saturday, is a major trade and investment platform offering opportunities for local and international businesses to explore partnerships. About 40 exhibitors from China participated in the trade fair under the theme "Promote Made in Zimbabwe, Support the Industrialization of Zimbabwe."
Murwira said that cooperation between China and Zimbabwe in skills training and capacity-building is critical for the country's development. "Growth comes from ideas, and ideas are cultivated in education. The exchange of people, the exchange of ideas, studying in China is crucial for us as we ramp up our capabilities to reach our Vision 2030."
Zimbabwe's Vision 2030 aims to transform the country into an upper-middle-income economy by 2030 through innovation-driven growth and industrialization. Murwira said that China's growth has been anchored on science, technology and innovation applied to all facets of life.
China has carried out capacitation programs to enhance human capacity in Zimbabwe through short-term training courses and degree programs for Zimbabwean students and professionals. In 2023, over 300 officers from the Public Services Commission received training in China under the China-Zimbabwe Human Resources Development Cooperation.
China has also become a major study destination for Zimbabwean students seeking further education. Over the years, China has dispatched experts to conduct training for professionals in Zimbabwe.
"China has been able to reach where it is today through a knowledge and innovation economy. Zimbabwe, being a strategic partner of China, learns a lot from their pathway," he said.
He added that China's impressive economic growth over the years serves as a valuable lesson in innovation-driven development.
"The mutually beneficial relationship between China and Zimbabwe is extremely important. In the innovation, science and technology ecosystem, we value this relationship because it is crucial for the country's growth," he noted.
Murwira also noted that China provides some of the machinery and equipment that drives Zimbabwe's industrialization.
"The equipment used in our innovation hubs comes from China, showing that we want to grow this relationship to ensure mutual growth. We value our relationship with China and believe it can bring the necessary capabilities for Zimbabwe to become an upper-middle-income economy," he added. ■