Zambian Vice President Mutale Nalumango (1st R, front) and Chinese Ambassador to Zambia Han Jing (1st L) visit a photo exhibition in Lusaka, Zambia, Sept. 26, 2024. The Chinese Embassy in Zambia hosted a reception on Thursday in Lusaka, the capital, celebrating the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. This event also marked the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations between China and Zambia. (Xinhua/Peng Lijun)
LUSAKA, Sept. 27 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese Embassy in Zambia hosted a reception on Thursday in Lusaka, the capital, celebrating the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. This event also marked the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations between China and Zambia.
The reception was attended by Chinese Ambassador to Zambia Han Jing, Zambian Vice President Mutale Nalumango, government officials and members of the Chinese community. The occasion featured vibrant cultural displays, including dance, music and traditional Chinese kung fu.
In his remarks, Han said the past 75 years have been an epic journey for the Chinese people, transitioning from poverty to prosperity while achieving rapid economic growth and long-term social stability.
"When China began engaging in the global modernization process led by the West in the late 19th century, it was not by choice; it was a traumatic experience marked by injustice. However, through strong leadership, determination and hard work, China has embarked on a modernization drive that aims to build a great modern country capable of sharing experiences and opportunities with the rest of the world," Han said.
He expressed China's willingness to offer support to other developing countries striving for modernization and reaffirmed China's commitment to peaceful development and promoting a shared future for humanity.
Regarding relations with Zambia, the ambassador said that the two countries have supported each other's core interests. He said that since elevating their relationship to a comprehensive strategic and cooperative partnership last year, political trust and practical cooperation have deepened significantly.
Underlining the signing of several bilateral cooperation documents during the recent Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, Han said that both countries will work to translate these agreements into actionable initiatives.
Nalumango reflected on the shared history between the two countries, expressing gratitude to their founding leaders for establishing a lasting friendship. She said that over the past 60 years, Zambia and China have nurtured a partnership built on mutual respect and shared goals of freedom and prosperity.
Highlighting major projects between the two sides, including the Tanzania-Zambia Railway (TAZARA), Nalumango said it is important to revitalize TAZARA, which not only exemplifies the enduring relationship with China but also fosters regional connectivity and trade in southern Africa.
She further said that the recent FOCAC summit reaffirmed the commitment to advancing sustainable development between China and Africa.
Vernon Mwaanga, Zambia's former ambassador to the United Nations when Zambia was pushing for the adoption of a resolution to restore China's lawful seat in the world body, praised China's economic transformation over the past 75 years as historic and inspiring for developing countries.
Having visited China 19 times, he commended successive Chinese leaders for their vision and hard work, saying that China has set development standards that should serve as a model for many nations worldwide. ■
A martial art master (1st R, front) and students from the Zambia Shaolin Temple cultural center perform Chinese Kung Fu at a reception hosted by the Chinese Embassy in Zambia, in Lusaka, Zambia, Sept. 26, 2024, The Chinese Embassy in Zambia hosted a reception on Thursday in Lusaka, the capital, celebrating the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. This event also marked the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations between China and Zambia. (Xinhua/Peng Lijun)
Vernon Mwaanga, Zambia's former ambassador to the United Nations, addresses a reception hosted by the Chinese Embassy in Zambia, in Lusaka, Zambia, Sept. 26, 2024, The Chinese Embassy in Zambia hosted a reception on Thursday in Lusaka, the capital, celebrating the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. This event also marked the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations between China and Zambia. (Xinhua/Peng Lijun)
Chinese Ambassador to Zambia Han Jing addresses a reception hosted by the Chinese Embassy in Zambia, in Lusaka, Zambia, Sept. 26, 2024, The Chinese Embassy in Zambia hosted a reception on Thursday in Lusaka, the capital, celebrating the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. This event also marked the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations between China and Zambia. (Xinhua/Peng Lijun)
Zambian Vice President Mutale Nalumango addresses a reception hosted by the Chinese Embassy in Zambia, in Lusaka, Zambia, Sept. 26, 2024. The Chinese Embassy in Zambia hosted a reception on Thursday in Lusaka, the capital, celebrating the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. This event also marked the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations between China and Zambia. (Xinhua/Peng Lijun)