NAIROBI, Dec. 4 (Xinhua) -- Kenya remains committed to promoting the long-term and healthy growth of its relations with China as well as protecting the interests of Chinese nationals living in the country, a senior Kenyan official has said.
Kenya-China ties will be further strengthened toward achieving a comprehensive strategic partnership, which is mutually beneficial and people-centered, Prime Cabinet Secretary Musalia Mudavadi said Tuesday evening when hosting a farewell dinner in honor of Chinese Ambassador to Kenya Zhou Pingjian.
"The government will ensure the Chinese community, which has supported the attainment of national development priorities, is safe while securing their investments," said Mudavadi, who doubles as the cabinet secretary for foreign and diaspora affairs.
The collaboration, which can be traced back for decades, has now become the cornerstone of a joint vision for building a closer community with a shared future, he said.
"We are currently institutionalizing the implementation mechanism of the recommendations of the signed Joint Vision for building an even closer Kenya-China community with a shared future geared to a win-win situation for the people of Kenya and China," Mudavadi was quoted as saying in a statement issued in Nairobi.
He said the established joint technical teams will continue to work seamlessly and include advancing modernization and implementation of the outcomes of the 2024 Beijing summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC).
Mudavadi thanked China for its support of medical supplies during the difficult period of the COVID-19 pandemic, saying it demonstrated that "China is a true friend of Kenya in times of need."
"This having taken place during your tenure as the ambassador. We recognize and salute your personal dedication that saw Beijing on many occasions support in kind and money towards emergencies," Mudavadi told Zhou.
He lauded Zhou's efforts in further cementing the Kenya-China Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative Partnership, saying the Chinese ambassador was available, whenever reached out to on important and urgent matters of mutual interest, while ensuring that both Nairobi and Beijing remained on the same page.
"Kenya will miss you, but we are sure that you will join Kenya's friends in Beijing, and you will continue enhancing our mutual relationship," Mudavadi said.
He listed some of Zhou's key contributions toward strengthening the Kenya-China Strategic Partnership during his tenure, including increased high-level visits by both Kenya and China, a clear political goodwill to take the strategic partnership to greater heights.
It was during Zhou's tenure that Kenya formally joined four China-proposed initiatives: the Belt and Road Initiative, the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative, and the Global Civilization Initiative, according to the statement issued by the Kenyan foreign ministry.
Zhou, on his part, noted that while the world is undergoing major development, transformation and adjustment, peace and development remain the call of the day.
China has been promoting a community with a shared future for mankind, and it will continue to join all countries in the world, including Kenya, to create a beautiful future of greater prosperity, he said.
"As Kenya celebrates its 60 years of diplomacy, China is ready to further strengthen its bilateral relations with Kenya in key areas of trade, investment and development," Zhou said. ■