A local lion dance team performs to celebrate the upcoming Chinese New Year at the City of Sydney Fire Station in Sydney, Australia, on Feb. 7, 2024. The fire and rescue authority in the Australian state of New South Wales on Wednesday hosted a special Chinese lion dance ceremony in Sydney to welcome the upcoming Year of Dragon and also mark the 140th anniversary of its service.(Fire and Rescue New South Wales/Handout via Xinhua)
SYDNEY. Feb. 7 (Xinhua) -- The fire and rescue authority in the Australian state of New South Wales on Wednesday hosted a special Chinese lion dance ceremony in Sydney to welcome the upcoming Year of Dragon and also mark the 140th anniversary of its service.
Before the Chinese New Year begins on Saturday, Fire and Rescue New South Wales (FRNSW) Commissioner Jeremy Fewtrell and other firefighters welcomed the performance at the City of Sydney Fire Station, which was presented by a local lion and dragon dance troupe.
Following the vigorous beats of a drum, a gong and cymbals, four young performers in red-and-yellow lion costumes danced their way through the street, showcased their intricate footwork in the station's engine bays, as well as interacted with the spectators.
"The lion dance is one of the most important traditions of Chinese New Year. The lion dance performances are believed to drive away evil spirits, and bring prosperity and good luck for the coming year," said Darryl Dunbar, FRNSW Area Commander for Metro East.
This year also marks 140 years since the creation of the Metropolitan Fire Brigade (MFB), which is now known as FRNSW.
Dunbar said that the performance celebrates the fire service's close ties with the communities in Sydney's Chinatown and Haymarket districts in particular.
"It's a terrific gesture during what is FRNSW's 140th year and we work closely with the state's culturally and linguistically diverse communities, especially around our fire prevention and preparedness activities," said the chief superintendent. ■
Fire and Rescue New South Wales (FRNSW) Commissioner Jeremy Fewtrell (2nd, R) and other firefighters pose for photos with the lion dance troupe at the City of Sydney Fire Station in Sydney, Australia, on Feb. 7, 2024. The fire and rescue authority in the Australian state of New South Wales on Wednesday hosted a special Chinese lion dance ceremony in Sydney to welcome the upcoming Year of Dragon and also mark the 140th anniversary of its service.(Fire and Rescue New South Wales/Handout via Xinhua)
A local lion dance team performs to celebrate the upcoming Chinese New Year at the City of Sydney Fire Station in Sydney, Australia, on Feb. 7, 2024. The fire and rescue authority in the Australian state of New South Wales on Wednesday hosted a special Chinese lion dance ceremony in Sydney to welcome the upcoming Year of Dragon and also mark the 140th anniversary of its service.(Fire and Rescue New South Wales/Handout via Xinhua)