Former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo speaks during an interview with Xinhua in Abeokuta, Ogun state of Nigeria, Nov. 18, 2024. (Xinhua/Hou Ming)
by Olatunji Saliu
ABUJA, Jan. 3 (Xinhua) -- China's remarkable transformation over recent decades is "a source of inspiration and opportunity for Nigeria and Africa," former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo has said, emphasizing the potential for strategic collaboration to accelerate mutual growth and development.
In a recent interview with Xinhua, Obasanjo expressed great admiration for China's development while reflecting on his recent visit to the country in October 2024.
"China changes every time you go there," he said, underscoring the country's "capacity for innovation and adaptation," which he believes Nigeria can learn from.
"If it has been done in China, it can be done elsewhere," the former president said.
Obasanjo said there are many lessons Nigeria can take from China's development, highlighting China's unique role in fostering global peace, shared prosperity, strategic partnerships, and poverty alleviation.
He added that these achievements demonstrate China's ability to transform its society and its potential to contribute to global development.
China has lifted 800 million people out of poverty, "a feat unparalleled in world history," he said, lauding Beijing for its willingness to share its experience and help other developing nations "learn how to fish," which he sees as essential for empowering nations to create their own wealth.
As Africa's most populous nation and leading economy, Nigeria has much to gain from a deeper partnership with China, Obasanjo said, noting the elevation of China-Nigeria ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership in September 2024 will help promote trust and mutually beneficial outcomes.
He said the China-proposed initiatives like the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) offer immense opportunity for Africa to boost intra-African trade and infrastructure development.
With over 150 nations and over 30 international organizations involved, the BRI aims to enhance global connectivity and trade, he said, noting that improved communication and transportation networks are critical for developing the African continent.
While responding to concerns about China's expanding global influence, Obasanjo said that China's engagement with Africa is based on strategic cooperation, not exploitation.
"Strategic relationships mean mutual benefit, economically, diplomatically, and technologically," he said, calling on Nigeria to harness its agricultural and mineral resources to drive industrialization and value addition as part of this partnership.
"Fair trade, not aid, is the way forward," Obasanjo stressed.
The former president emphasized the importance of leadership in promoting unity, harmony, and shared prosperity. He underlined the need for equity, justice, and inclusivity at all levels of governance, warning that a world without these principles would be "dangerous for everyone."
Looking ahead, Obasanjo expressed hope that Nigeria and China, by strengthening their partnerships and embracing fair trade, could jointly create a more secure, equitable, and prosperous world. ■