by Shi Xinyi, Diao Wencong, Marwa Yahya
CAIRO, Jan. 18 (Xinhua) -- "It has always been my dream to travel to Egypt. Its rich civilization, full of mysteries and stories, captivates me," said Ji Siqi, a Chinese tourist who kick-starts her seven-day trip to Egypt with a visit to the Egyptian Museum in downtown Cairo.
At the museum, a Chinese family, who identified themselves only by their surname Rui, said they were impressed by the abundance of Egypt's cultural relics and historic sites.
"Children should learn about ancient civilizations to broaden their horizons, so we come here," the mother of the family told Xinhua, as they neared the end of their 13-day family trip that covers destinations including the cities of Cairo, Luxor, Aswan, and the Red Sea resort city of Hurghada.
Both Ji and the Rui family are among the tens of thousands of Chinese visitors traveling to Egypt, an increasingly popular destination located about 7,000 km from China.
In 2024, about 300,000 Chinese tourists visited the North African country, home to the world-renowned pyramids and temples, the Chinese embassy in Egypt revealed in mid-December. Egyptian authorities said the figure represented a remarkable 63 percent increase compared to 2023.
Chinese tourists are part of the 15.7 million visitors who arrived in Egypt in 2024. This figure surpasses the previous record of 14.9 million set in 2023 and marks the second consecutive year Egypt has exceeded its 2010 tourism peak of 14.7 million visitors, according to Egyptian authorities.
In a statement released by the Egyptian cabinet on Jan. 1, Egyptian Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly announced that the country aims to attract 18 million visitors in 2025.
Analysts say that with the strong relations between the two countries, the Chinese market will undoubtedly play a key role in driving the expansion of Egypt's tourism sector this year.
As part of its ambitious strategy to expand its share of the Chinese tourism market, Egypt aims to attract 3 million Chinese tourists annually by 2028, former Egyptian Minister of Tourism and Antiquities Ahmed Issa announced in November 2023.
At the 2024 China Outbound Travel and Tourism Market, a trade fair held in Beijing in October 2024, Egyptian tourism authorities revealed that a series of measures have been taken to attract more Chinese tourists, including adding Chinese-language signage at tourist sites, encouraging hotels to serve Chinese cuisine, and hiring more Chinese-speaking tour guides.
Amr El-Kady, CEO of the Egyptian Tourism Authority, highlighted Egypt's willingness to collaborate with Chinese travel agencies on joint marketing campaigns to provide Chinese tourists with an updated and enriched travel experience.
El-Kady also noted that Egypt's official tourism website is now available in Chinese, offering comprehensive information on tourist attractions, activities, and upcoming events in the country.
Mohamed Othman, chairman of the Cultural Tourism Marketing Committee in Upper Egypt, noted that Chinese tourists now prefer destinations with historical sites, natural beauty, and modern amenities, making Egypt a popular choice.
He urged Egyptian travel agencies to strengthen cooperation with Chinese companies and increase flight connections between the two countries.
On RedNote, China's Instagram-like social media platform, thousands of users have shared their travel experiences in Egypt, offering reviews and insights that highlight their unique cultural explorations.
"I would definitely consider coming back for a second trip, because there are still many sights in Cairo I haven't explored, and I didn't get the chance to dive deep into the local culture," said Fang Zixuan, a visitor from Shanghai, on her last day in Egypt. ■