Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2023-10-24 21:16:30
BEIJING, Oct. 24 (Xinhua) -- The Patriotic Education Law was passed on Tuesday at a session of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, China's national legislature, providing a legal guarantee for carrying out patriotic education.
The legislation was carried out amid public expectations to promote patriotic education, which is facing challenges including the influences of some social thoughts, such as historical nihilism, in recent years. Some people are at a loss about what is patriotism.
The legislation serves as a clear guide for performing constitutional obligations. China's Constitution stipulates that the state should carry out patriotic education among the people.
The Constitution also stipulates that citizens shall have the obligation to safeguard national unity and the solidarity of all the country's ethnic groups, and have the obligation to safeguard the security, honor and interests of the motherland.
The law, which will take effect on Jan. 1, 2024, specifies the responsibilities in patriotic education of entities ranging from central and local government departments to schools and families.
While it is enacted to promote patriotism, the law stresses the need to be rational, inclusive and open-minded, open the country wider to the world and embrace other civilizations.
The law mandates that patriotic education shall respect the history and cultural traditions of other countries and draw inspiration from all of human civilization's outstanding achievements.
Patriotism is a universal sentiment of all humanity. Deeply rooted in the national culture, patriotism serves as a vital bond among various ethnic groups and inspires generations of Chinese people to strive to build a strong and prosperous country.
The law contains provisions already contained in laws including the National Anthem Law and the Law on the Protection of Heroes and Martyrs, which ban such acts as insulting the national flag and distorting or denying heroes' deeds and spirit. It also highlights the role played by the country's systems of awards and honors in honoring those who have made outstanding contributions to the country.
With the enactment of the Patriotic Education Law, the Chinese people will be able to better shore up the national spirit and forge a collective force toward building a stronger China and realizing national rejuvenation through a Chinese path to modernization. ■