Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2023-10-14 08:46:45
YANGON, Oct. 14 (Xinhua) -- With around one week until the highly anticipated 4th Asian Para Games in Hangzhou, China, Myanmar's athletes are eagerly fine-tuning their skills at training venues in Yangon.
This year, the Myanmar Paralympic Sports Federation will send a total of 16 athletes to compete in athletics, sitting volleyball, and swimming to the Asian Games, the federation said.
One of Myanmar's shining stars, Soe Pea, 28, is gearing up to take on the 100m and 200m running competitions at the Asian Para Games.
"It will be my first time to participate in an Asian Games. On my side, I'm preparing my best. For the highest, I want gold medals," he told Xinhua on Thursday.
Soe Pea said he made his international debut at the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Para Games in Malaysia in 2017.
With a remarkable track record, including three gold medals in previous ASEAN Para Games, Soe Pea also dreamed of representing Myanmar in the Paralympic Games in the future, he said.
Regarding his training, Soe Pea said, "I'm always trying to keep myself healthy and fit. The athletes from other countries also don't stay sleeping; they were also trying," he said.
Kyaw Kyaw Aung, 33-year-old captain of Myanmar's sitting volleyball team, shared the team's dedication to secure a top-four finish at the Asian Para Games.
He acknowledged the challenging opponents and the need for unity in the face of taller and technically superior teams.
"It may be hard to secure medals in such a prestigious event. However, we will do our best. At least, we will gain valuable experience," he said.
Kyaw, who visited China for joint training in 2017, also highlighted the opportunity to form friendships and exchange cultures during the games.
Swimmer Kyaw Htoo, 39, is another standout athlete representing Myanmar in the 50m butterfly and 50m backstroke swimming events.
With a bronze medal from the 2018 Asian Para Games in Indonesia, Kyaw Htoo sets his sights on achieving the highest honors at this year's Asian Para Games.
"I'm excited to go and play in China," Kyaw said, adding that it will be his second visit to China. In 2015, Kyaw visited China for a joint training, he said
"Besides the medals, the lifestyles and cultures of athletes from other countries can be learned during the games," he noted.
Min Naing Oo, joint secretary of the Myanmar Paralympic Sports Federation, said the athletes have been training in camp since the conclusion of the 12th ASEAN Para Games.
Myanmar's sports delegation for the Hangzhou Asian Para Games will feature 14 male athletes, two female athletes and five coaches in the sports of athletics, sitting volleyball and swimming, he said.
The 4th Asian Para Games is scheduled to be held in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province from October 22 to 28. ■