Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2023-12-14 20:17:15
BEIJING, Dec. 14 (Xinhua) -- China and Vietnam have declared their joint commitment to building a community with a shared future that carries strategic significance based on strengthening their comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership.
The development came on Tuesday during the first trip to Vietnam in six years by Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and Chinese president.
Why does the new stage of China-Vietnam relations matter?
For the two nations, it solidifies their long-standing friendship.
As the first of its kind since Xi put forward the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind 10 years ago, the China-Vietnam community with a shared future that carries strategic significance is built upon a time-honored friendship with a vision for the future.
Reflecting on their history, spanning 73 years since the establishment of diplomatic ties, China and Vietnam have strengthened their bond through mutual support and assistance for the cause of national independence and liberation, and through comprehensive cooperation to promote socialist construction.
In this new phase of bilateral relations, both nations are poised to leverage shared opportunities and pursue mutual development across political, economic, trade, security, and people-to-people exchanges.
For the Asia-Pacific region, the landmark agreement embodies the principles of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit, and inclusiveness in China's neighborhood diplomacy.
Xi said that the remarkable development achievements of the two countries are the result of the hard work of both sides and an open and inclusive world, especially a peaceful and stable Asia-Pacific.
China has committed itself to working with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to build a closer China-ASEAN community with a shared future.
It is also working with ASEAN countries including Laos, Cambodia, Myanmar, Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia to build a community with a shared future.
The new positioning of China-Vietnam relations is poised to inject momentum into these processes, contributing positively to regional peace and prosperity.
Additionally, China is building a community with a shared future with multiple regions including Central Asian, African, Arab, and Latin American and Caribbean states.
Thus, the latest development in China-Vietnam ties marks a step toward building a community with a shared future for Asia and humanity.
It is an energy boost for the long-term development and amicable relations in Asia, and better promotes world peace and development.
Positioned at a new historical juncture, building a China-Vietnam community with a shared future that carries strategic significance will benefit the two peoples, and make new contributions to regional and world stability, development, and prosperity. ■