Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2023-12-19 15:38:30
CAIRO, Dec. 19 (Xinhua) -- The use of modern technologies and AI in the media should enhance the reliability of journalism instead of hampering it, the chief of Egypt's official Middle East News Agency (MENA) told Xinhua in a recent interview.
"Journalism must be based on truthful and verified information, and the use of modern technologies and AI in the media should not negatively affect their credibility," Ali Hassan, chairman and editor-in-chief of MENA, said after he attended the 5th World Media Summit in China.
Themed "Boosting Global Confidence, Promoting Media Development," the 5th World Media Summit was held on Dec. 2-8 in the Chinese cities of Guangzhou and Kunming, gathering over 450 representatives from nearly 200 institutions, including media outlets, think tanks, and international organizations from over 100 countries and regions.
Hassan said the summit highlighted the importance of "credibility in media coverage" while discussing ways of using modern technologies and AI in the media to enhance the performance of news agencies.
It also stressed the importance of referring to a country's news agency as the main reliable source to get accurate news and information about the country, according to the editor-in-chief.
The summit saw extensive and in-depth discussions on four main topics --Bolstering Confidence: Media's Role in Promoting Human Development and Security; Embracing Changes: Media's Response to New Technological Opportunities and Challenges; Pioneering Innovation: Media's New Markets in the Digital Age; and Seeking Growth: Media's Worldwide Cooperation for a Better Future.
"The World Media Summit discussed a number of international issues, including combating poverty, food security, industrialization, climate change and other," said MENA's chairman.
He said the summit stressed the ability of the media to contribute positively to addressing such issues through publishing relevant research and opinions of experts.
Participants also discussed ways to boost cooperation among media outlets around the world to provide reliable, accurate and verified news, he said, adding the summit was a "valuable opportunity for acquaintance among major and influential media figures of many countries."
"On the sidelines of the summit, friendly consultations and meetings were held between many heads of news agencies and media outlets where they discussed exchange of expertise and cooperation," Hassan recalled.
Meanwhile, the summit also emphasized the significance of objectivity and fairness in reporting, he said.
"Western news agencies generally side with the U.S. policies and attitudes on many issues," said Hassan. ■