Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2023-09-22 13:48:00
by Yosley Carrero
HAVANA, Sept. 21 (Xinhua)-- The China-proposed Global Development Initiative (GDI) is timely and necessary as the world faces huge challenges ahead, a Cuban expert has said.
"This initiative will contribute to human progress," Eduardo Regalado, a senior researcher at the International Policy Research Center of Cuba, told Xinhua in a recent interview.
In September 2021, China proposed the GDI at the general debate of the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, offering the international community another significant public good.
Noting that "development is essential for most nations," Regalado said the GDI, with its people-centered philosophy, "can pave the way for development and contribute to the finding of global peace."
Particularly, the initiative will be highly beneficial for the prosperity of developing countries, he said.
To effectively implement the GDI, China prioritizes the urgent needs of developing countries, proposing a range of practical measures to empower developing countries in crucial areas including poverty reduction, food security, industrialization, and connectivity.
According to a report released by the Chinese government in June, in just the past year, China has established more than 100 projects to promote the GDI, benefiting nearly 40 developing countries. Additionally, China has set up 1,000 capacity-building projects and provided 20,000 training opportunities in relevant countries.
The GDI will promote international cooperation, solidarity and multilateralism, and help strengthen the world's engagement with developing countries' development agendas, Regalado said.
"I strongly believe China's GDI will put development affairs at the core of discussion among multilateral organizations," he said.
The initiative has also paid much attention to innovation, an area where China has made important achievements over the past decades, he said.
Besides, the GDI's emphasis on harmony between human and nature is crucial for supporting sustainability worldwide, he added. ■