Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2023-10-29 11:18:00
Headquarters of Italy's Rhea Vendors Group is pictured in the province of Varese, in the Lombardy region of Italy, Oct. 17, 2023. (Xinhua/Zhou Xiaotian)
ROME, Oct. 29 (Xinhua) -- The upcoming China International Import Expo (CIIE) is a significant platform for enterprises to share experiences and forge partnerships, Claudio Valdetara, marketing director of Italy's Rhea Vendors Group, told Xinhua.
Rhea Vendors Group, an Italy-based world-leading producer of customized vending machines, will participate in the CIIE for the third time this year, planning to showcase a range of coffee machines that feature tailored, innovative and sustainable experiences.
The sixth CIIE, scheduled for Nov. 5 to Nov. 10, presents an invaluable opportunity for corporations, finance and banking entities, and industries to look for partners to expand their reach, said Valdetara.
"At CIIE, we aspire to be recognized as an ambassador of Italian coffee and lifestyle in the Chinese market," he said.
Valdetara noted that China has made substantial investments to become a global hub for open trade. Because of its credibility, the CIIE allows companies to focus on the Chinese market.
According to the data firm Statista, per capita coffee consumption in China is just nine cups yearly. However, the Chinese market is growing more than 30 percent annually.
Over the past 14 years, the Chinese market has swelled by more than 1,000 percent, according to the coffee trade journal Comunicaffe International.
"We understood that there is great potential in China's coffee and hospitality industry for our brands," Valdetara said, noting that the company is committed to providing tailored solutions for the Chinese market, where customization is critical.
"Chinese market is requesting a very high-qualified coffee, involving various stages from harvesting, processing, retailing, to innovation," Valdetara said.
Rhea was founded in 1960 and presents its products in around 90 countries and regions. The company aims to leverage China's manufacturing prowess alongside its own brand strengths to deliver the finest cups of coffee and beverages to local consumers.
"We don't see China only as a place to sell products, but we can do much more with a long-term vision. We want to step close to the Chinese market and become one of the leading companies of high-quality coffee there," Valdetara said.
"China has an extensive history, yet it is also a young and dynamic market. We are eager to learn about the true needs of the young Chinese generation," Valdetara said. ■
A vending machine produced by Italy's Rhea Vendors Group is showcased in Milan, Italy, Oct. 17, 2023. (Xinhua/Zhou Xiaotian)
A woman uses an automatic coffee machine produced by Italy's Rhea Vendors Group showcased in Milan, Italy, Oct. 17, 2023. (Xinhua/Zhou Xiaotian)
An automatic coffee machine produced by Italy's Rhea Vendors Group is showcased at the company's headquarters in the province of Varese, in the Lombardy region of Italy, Oct. 17, 2023. (Xinhua/Zhou Xiaotian)