Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2023-12-25 06:56:00
TEHRAN, Dec. 24 (Xinhua) -- China's efforts to address regional and global conflicts through talks and negotiations have created a win-win situation, benefiting all the involved parties and contributing to peace and stability worldwide, Iranian experts have said.
Over the past years, particularly in 2023, China has been actively seeking to help ease conflicts in different regions by playing a mediatory role.
An instance of such endeavors was a groundbreaking normalization deal reached between Iran and Saudi Arabia in the Chinese capital in March, following several rounds of Tehran-Riyadh talks in Iraq on the resumption of diplomatic relations.
Meanwhile, China's position and proposition on the political settlement of the Ukraine issue and its efforts to achieve a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza, where a deadly conflict has erupted since Oct. 7 between Israel and Hamas, are all bids to achieving peace.
Hassan Beheshtipour, an Iranian international affairs analyst, told Xinhua, "Such efforts by China have benefits for the involved parties, other regional states and even global ones, and help create a win-win situation."
For instance, he said, the resumption of the Tehran-Riyadh relations brokered by China without creating much media hype benefited not only Iran and Saudi Arabia but also regional countries, such as Iraq, Syria, Yemen and Lebanon.
"Iraq sees resumed cooperation and relations between Iran and Saudi Arabia in line with its own stability and security," said the analyst, adding that Syria and Saudi Arabia followed suit and resumed diplomatic missions in both countries, followed by Syria's return to the Arab League.
Echoing similar viewpoints, Majidreza Hariri, president of the Iran-China Chamber of Commerce and Industries, told Xinhua that, of great importance regarding China's efforts to establish peace and resolve disputes was that "they eventually help create a win-win situation."
"I believe that China has managed to play a positive role in helping resolve international conflicts and differences, as it has never adopted an interference-based approach toward such issues, but a mediatory one," Hariri said.
China's growing international influence is closely connected with its expanding economic development, Hariri noted.
Development is the cornerstone of peace and stability and a common quest of countries around the globe. "Currently, as the world's second-largest economic power, China feels an ethical and social responsibility in the international arena to contribute more to achieving peace and stability," he said.
Concurring with Hariri's opinion, Beheshtipour said, "Since 2013, with the proposal of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), China has started the cooperation that involves more than 150 countries worldwide." He hailed the BRI cooperation as an important platform to materialize the vision of building a community with a shared future for humanity and also part of China's efforts to align its development with that of the world's countries. ■