Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2023-10-24 13:49:30
by Raheela Nazir
ISLAMABAD, Oct. 24 (Xinhua) -- The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) helps promote common development and prosperity, said a Pakistani expert.
The BRI has facilitated infrastructure development, trade, investment, and cultural exchanges in more than 150 countries and with over 30 international organizations, promoting a shared vision of growth, peace, and prosperity, Farhat Asif, president of the Institute of Peace and Diplomatic Studies, said in a recent interview with Xinhua.
Based on the principles of extensive consultation, joint contribution, and shared benefits, the BRI has the potential to make substantial contributions to a more reasonable and just global governance system and promote globalization, Asif said.
"It serves as a model for cooperative development that can inspire nations to engage in multilateral efforts to address global issues, whether they pertain to infrastructure, economic development, environmental conservation, or cultural exchange," she said.
The expert said that in Pakistan, the BRI has brought tremendous socio-economic benefits through its flagship project -- the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).
Launched in 2013, the CPEC is a corridor linking the Gwadar port in southwestern Pakistan with Kashgar in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, highlighting energy, transport and industrial cooperation.
"The CPEC has developed modern road networks, railways and ports, facilitating local businesses, generating jobs, reducing travel times and logistics costs, promoting economic growth and trade," she said, adding that the improved transportation infrastructure has led to a significant increase in Pakistan's trade volumes.
"Pakistan can now more effectively trade with countries such as China, Central Asian nations, and the Middle East. This has broadened the market for Pakistani products and enhanced economic ties with regional partners," she added.
In addition to transportation, Asif said the BRI has supported the development of energy infrastructure in Pakistan, helping the country to overcome severe energy shortages and increase power generation capacity.
Noting that the BRI has made achievements in several critical areas that directly impact the livelihoods of people in participating countries, Asif underlined that the initiative's efforts in poverty reduction, agricultural technology, vocational education, and various other aspects of people's livelihood were instrumental in improving living standards.
"Through investments, knowledge sharing, and infrastructure development, the initiative has contributed to sustainable development and provided numerous opportunities for individuals and communities," she added.
Talking about China's commitment to boosting green development, the expert said that the BRI indeed played a crucial role in promoting the construction and development of high-quality green projects across the world.
The promotion of green energy projects under the BRI aligns with the global effort to combat climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, she said, adding that the development of renewable energy such as wind, solar, and hydropower in BRI participating countries is a step towards reducing carbon emissions and transitioning to a more sustainable energy mix.
"It reflects a commitment to sustainable development and offers potential benefits to participating countries, ranging from reduced carbon emissions and environmental impact to economic growth and technological advancement," the expert said. ■