Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2023-10-14 14:53:45
Argentine President Alberto Fernandez speaks during an exclusive interview with Xinhua in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Oct. 5, 2023. The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has promoted development in Argentina and served as a paradigm for the unconditional multilateralism China champions globally, Argentine President Alberto Fernandez said here recently. (Photo by Martin Zabala/Xinhua)
BUENOS AIRES, Oct. 13 (Xinhua) -- The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has promoted development in Argentina and served as a paradigm for the unconditional multilateralism China champions globally, Argentine President Alberto Fernandez said here recently.
In an exclusive interview with Xinhua at the government headquarters, Fernandez said that the China-proposed BRI has shown that the country has "an attitude of great respect for others; it is not an attitude of (seeking) submission."
"China is a very large country. It is a country that objectively leads international trade, and it is a country that has really treated Argentina very well," said Fernandez, who will soon come to Beijing to attend the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation.
In February 2022, Argentina signed a memorandum of understanding on joining the BRI, an initiative proposed by Chinese President Xi Jinping in 2013.
Calling China "a genuine investor in Argentina," a valuable partner and a friend, Fernandez said "there is no Chinese capital that comes to make occasional investments to speculate financially. They are long-term investments. They are investments that provide work. They are investments that clearly express the will to become part of the country, to share Argentine development with Argentina."
The BRI plays an important role in strengthening people-to-people exchanges and connectivity between countries, and gradually building a community with a shared future for mankind, he said.
"China is the country that best interprets the idea of multilateralism," he said, adding that a major country like China taking on the role of spearheading multilateralism "fills developing countries with hope and expectations."
Recalling his meeting with Xi on several occasions, Fernandez said it has been very helpful to him each time, as Xi has not only proposed the BRI, but also other "valuable" multilateral initiatives, such as the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative.
"Hegemonism in the world has come to an end ... The time has come for multilateralism and all these ideas, all these proposals, make for better multilateralism," he said.
These initiatives are "on the right path, which is to try to achieve an integration where we all respect each other," he said.
Noting that the bond between Argentina and China "is very important," Fernandez said he has "a particular gratitude towards China."
China has done many things for Argentina, making investments and helping develop Argentina's mining and agriculture sectors, and providing Argentina with COVID-19 vaccines, he said, adding that China "always did so without imposing conditions."
The Argentine president expressed hope that the bond between the two countries can continue to deepen in the future, through working together both under the BRI and within the BRICS mechanism.
"I am convinced that it (the BRI) is a great opportunity for Argentina," Fernandez said, adding that thanks to the Chinese government, his country has joined BRICS recently, which means the two sides can also "work together on other issues."
Argentina and China have "a lot to partner with and work together on," he said, calling for more people-to-people exchanges through tourism.
"For us, it would be wonderful if the Chinese saw Argentina as an interesting tourism destination. We have to work on that," he added. ■
Argentine President Alberto Fernandez speaks during an exclusive interview with Xinhua in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Oct. 5, 2023. The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has promoted development in Argentina and served as a paradigm for the unconditional multilateralism China champions globally, Argentine President Alberto Fernandez said here recently. (Photo by Martin Zabala/Xinhua)