Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-10-29 13:58:30
A participant enjoys acupoint massage during an event featuring traditional Chinese medicine at Palais des Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, Oct. 28, 2024. (Xinhua/Lian Yi)
by Xinhua writer Shi Song
GENEVA, Oct. 28 (Xinhua) -- "I was struck by how the Chinese doctor diagnosed my health issues simply by taking my pulse, and I hadn't even mentioned anything!" Rasha Mouzahem, wife of Syria's permanent representative to the UN Office at Geneva (UNOG), told Xinhua at the Palais des Nations on Monday.
During the lunch break, a crowd of diplomats gathered for the Art and Tradition of Chinese Medicine (TCM) Event, organized by the National Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, the Permanent Mission of the People's Republic of China to the UNOG, and the UNOG.
The event drew about 200 participants, notably officials from international organizations and diplomats from over 50 countries such as Brazil, Pakistan, Syria, Bangladesh, Georgia, Gambia, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Kazakhstan and Mauritius.
The TCM embodies Chinese cultural values and humanistic spirit, said Chen Xu, China's permanent representative to the UNOG and other international organizations in Switzerland.
He stressed the need to promote this cultural heritage and uphold tradition while fostering innovation, with a strong focus on technological advancement to drive the TCM's development.
Highlighting openness and inclusivity, Chen called for increased cultural exchange and international collaboration as well as learning from global medical practices to boost global health and sustainable development.
The event featured several interactive zones, including acupoint massage, acupuncture experience, pulse diagnosis and Q&A sessions. Long queues lined up quickly at each area as attendees eagerly sought to experience acupuncture, relieve stress through massage and catch a glimpse of the principles of traditional Chinese medicine.
Sheila Santana Afonso, trade counselor of the Permanent Mission of the Republic of Mozambique to the UNOG, said she suffered from insomnia and tension in her shoulders and back due to stress from work.
"I was delighted to experience the TCM in Geneva today. The Chinese experts patiently explained how to use the TCM for health management, which was incredibly beneficial," she said.
Mimie Syahril, wife of the permanent representative of Malaysia to the World Trade Organization (WTO), said she had been struggling with stomach issues.
"The Chinese expert not only provided treatment but also answered many of my questions, offering advice on how to care for my health when I return home," she noted. "This experience was not just about the TCM. It was a wonderful opportunity to engage with Chinese culture."
"The TCM is so deeply rooted in the Chinese understanding of the world and the human body that it really connects with art," said Francesco Pisano, director of the Cultural Activities Programme of the UNOG.
Pisano said the TCM's insights are universally significant and align well with their cultural programming.
He noted the UN has a collective responsibility to embrace global knowledge for well-being, adding that the event symbolized a valuable connection between art, wisdom and the TCM. ■
A participant tries Chinese tea during an event featuring traditional Chinese medicine at Palais des Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, Oct. 28, 2024. (Xinhua/Lian Yi)
A participant receives pulse diagnosis during an event featuring traditional Chinese medicine at Palais des Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, Oct. 28, 2024. (Xinhua/Lian Yi)
A participant enjoys acupoint massage during an event featuring traditional Chinese medicine at Palais des Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, Oct. 28, 2024. (Xinhua/Lian Yi)
Participants attend a lecture on acupuncture during an event featuring traditional Chinese medicine at Palais des Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, Oct. 28, 2024. (Xinhua/Lian Yi)