Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-01-27 17:27:00
PARIS, Jan. 27 (Xinhua) -- "The anniversary will strengthen our bonds in our shared history," said Eric Alauzet in a recent exclusive interview with Xinhua, referring to the 60th anniversary of the establishment of China-French diplomatic relations.
As president of the France-China Friendship Group of the French National Assembly and an acupuncturist doctor, his experiences reflect the history of mutual understanding and cooperation between France and China.
His passion for Chinese culture began with Chinese medicine, particularly acupuncture. At the end of his medical studies in Paris, the University of Bobigny started offering a course called "alternative medicine" that included acupuncture.
"I immediately had a very strong interest in acupuncture. Why? Because I had this sensitivity to consider health from a holistic point of view, meaning our health should not only take into account psychological and physical dimensions, but also the influence of the environment," he said.
He highlighted that unlike the rigid duality of the West, Chinese philosophy sees an interplay and transformation between yin and yang, creating a harmonious balance through their dynamic relationship.
After 35 years of study and passion for Chinese culture, Alauzet went to China last April for the first time, accompanying French President Emmanuel Macron during a visit to China.
Six months later, he returned to China as the president of the France-China Friendship Group of the French National Assembly. The group focuses on parliamentary diplomacy, distinct from official trips, aiming to enhance mutual understanding and build on dialogues between presidents and ministers.
"We do not engage in formal commitments. Instead, our discussions aim to foster better understanding and to potentially build upon the dialogues initiated between our presidents and ministers. We're resuming routine discussions," he said.
During the visit, the French delegation discussed global issues such as health, environment, and economic exchanges with the Chinese side. Emphasizing the importance of mutual understanding and goodwill, he highlighted the significance of friendship in these discussions.
For Alauzet, this year holds significance for both France and China. "I notice heightened activity between China and France. Sixty is an incredibly important milestone in China -- it marks the conclusion of one cycle and the commencement of a new era," he said.
He further said former French President Charles de Gaulle was a visionary who not only foresaw China's awakening and progress, but also anticipated China's role on the global stage. "Today, China is a heavyweight," he said.
"I think that in the exchanges between France and China, all of this will be extremely precious, and the 60th anniversary is really going to be an additional opportunity to strengthen our ties and the joint influence of China and France," he said.
France, for its part as a heavyweight in Europe, can extend its global influence through collaboration with China, Alauzet noted. In a multipolar world, the dominance of a singular Western model is unlikely.
He highlighted that 60 years of ties are an achievement, and the shared festivities offer an opportunity to forge stronger connections. "It enables us to meet more, fostering new friendships," he said.
"I'm optimistic about our success, as it will bolster culture and human relations -- the foundation of all relationships, including diplomatic and strategic ones," he added. ■