Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-05-02 11:53:00
by Xinhua writer Luo Xin
BEIJING, May 2 (Xinhua) -- Ancient architectural buildings at the Temple of Agriculture in downtown Beijing have recently opened to the public after years of renovation, and this cultural cluster, of the same age as the Forbidden City, is sure to become a new tourist magnet.
Located five kilometers south of Tian'anmen Square and approximately 800 meters west of the Temple of Heaven, the architectural marvels known as the Divine Granary Complex in the temple compound contribute to the rich tapestry of cultural heritage along Beijing's Central Axis, a vertical axis of Beijing's urban layout that can be traced to the 13th century.
The restoration work of the Temple of Agriculture reflects the municipal government's efforts in the preparations for the UNESCO World Heritage nomination for Beijing's Central Axis, dubbed Beijing's "dragon vein."
The Beijing Central Axis is 7.8 kilometers long, starting from the Yongding Gate in the south of the city and ending with the Drum Tower and Bell Tower in the north. Most of the major old-city buildings of Beijing are along this axis.
The No. 8 Line of Beijing's metro network threads the important cultural sites along the Central Axis.
The metro line starts from the Olympic Park station on the northern extension of the Central Axis. On its way south, passengers can hop on and off to visit the commercial streets of Shichahai and Qianmen, and the cultural sites such as the Drum Tower, Jingshan Park, the Palace Museum, the Temple of Heaven, and now the Temple of Agriculture.
The temple is also known as Xiannongtan Temple, with Xiannongtan meaning the Altar of the God of Agriculture.
The worship of Chinese ancestors who developed agriculture is deeply rooted in Chinese culture. As a Chinese traditional saying goes, "The country takes agriculture as the foundation, and food is the first necessity of the people."
Passing by vermilion walls, towering arches and lush trees, I proceeded through the north gate to enter the temple.
Inside, lies an intriguing spot: a small farming plot measuring 1 mu and 3 fen, roughly about 866.77 square meters. During the Ming and Qing Dynasties (1368-1911), emperors personally plowed the land every spring as a solemn ritual to worship the agricultural god and pray for good weather to achieve bountiful harvests.
The major buildings inside the temple include the Divine Granary, a milling house and a barn, a grain harvesting pavilion and a courtyard used for drying grains. The indoor spaces now host exhibitions showcasing the historical functions and cultural significance of the buildings, highlighting the ancestral wisdom in agricultural development.
The barn features a skylight and colored paintings adorning the walls and beams, created with painting materials containing pest-resistant realgar and minium, aimed at preserving grains by keeping them dry and preventing decay.
However, I was told that the current layout of the temple has not been fully restored to its original state. A middle school now occupies a portion of the space that was once part of the temple.
"In the near future, more areas of the temple will be open to the public after relocation and renovation work," said Xue Jian, director of the Beijing Ancient Architecture Museum.
Chinese authorities have planned to recommend the Beijing Central Axis as China's 2024 world cultural heritage application project, according to the National Cultural Heritage Administration.
Since 2011, Beijing has been committed to promoting the comprehensive protection of the old city's appearance, leveraging the world heritage application program to propel this endeavor forward.
"The opening of the restored Divine Granary complex showcases the achievements of Beijing's old city protection efforts," said Chu Jianhao, deputy director of the Beijing Municipal Cultural Heritage Bureau. ■