Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-10-23 15:46:30
KAZAN, Russia, Oct. 23 (Xinhua) -- The high-level development of Russia-China ties will unleash more chances for cooperation at subnational levels between the two countries, Rustam Minnikhanov, head of Russia's Republic of Tatarstan, told Xinhua in a recent interview.
The 16th BRICS summit, which is being held in Kazan, capital of Tatarstan, "presents Tatarstan with a chance to showcase its strengths, demonstrate its competitive advantages, and highlight its potential to contribute to Russia-China relations," said Minnikhanov.
According to Minnikhanov, Tatarstan is actively contributing to the advancement of Russia-China cooperation. The region has signed agreements with multiple Chinese provinces, and Kazan maintains sister-city relations with several Chinese cities.
Highlighting Tatarstan's growing trade with China, Minnikhanov said that by the end of last year, the trade turnover doubled to over 3 billion U.S. dollars, with around 60 percent of Tatarstan's imports coming from China.
"Of course, trade and economic relations are crucial ... Our growing trade and plans are primarily focused on Eastern countries, especially China," he said.
He also pointed out that several joint economic projects with Chinese companies are currently underway in Tatarstan, with ample opportunities for cooperation, particularly in the logistics sector.
As part of the Belt and Road Initiative and its integration with the Eurasian Economic Union, work is in progress to establish international transport and logistics corridors, he added.
At the end of last year, the M-12 Moscow-Kazan expressway was launched, becoming part of the Europe-China transport route. Furthermore, direct flights between Kazan and Shanghai commenced in late September, he noted.
Tatarstan is also committed to enhancing humanitarian, cultural, scientific, educational, and tourism exchanges with China, he said.
"I am confident that the BRICS summit in Kazan will be successful at a high level," Minnikhanov said. ■