Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-11-20 14:09:00
by Kin Phea
As the world is increasingly interconnected yet deeply divided, China has been playing a pivotal role in promoting global peace, security, governance, common development and shared prosperity.
China is an indispensable global role player in building a community with a shared future for mankind.
The world's second-largest economy has remained steadfast in safeguarding the international system with the United Nations at its core, the international order underpinned by international law and the basic norms of international relations based on the purposes and principles of the UN Charter.
China opposes unilateralism in all its forms and stands against the formation of exclusive blocs and coteries targeting specific nations.
It is an advocate for an equal and orderly multipolar world and a committed participant in multilateral affairs on all fronts.
China has joined nearly all universal inter-governmental organizations and over 600 international conventions and amendments, concluded more than 27,000 bilateral treaties with other countries and fulfilled in good faith its international obligations.
Its proactive efforts have also been made to shape global security norms and enhance international security cooperation, so as to push for a more just and equitable global order.
China is also a major peacemaker in the Middle East conflict and an active contributor to finding solutions to international conflicts.
China's role as a peacemaker was proven last year when it successfully facilitated reconciliation between Saudi Arabia and Iran.
China has endeavoured to promote the democratization of international relations, uphold genuine multilateralism, and steer global governance in a fairer and more equitable direction.
China has promoted the effective functioning of multilateral mechanisms such as the WTO and APEC to better fulfill their roles, and expanded the influence of cooperative mechanisms like BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
Furthermore, China's proposed initiatives such as the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative, and the Global Civilization Initiative are a great boon to the world's economic growth and development, injecting vigorous impetus into building global peace, stability, prosperity, connectivity and harmony.
Cambodia is one of the countries that have greatly benefited from these initiatives.
The BRI's flagship infrastructure projects such as the Sihanoukville Special Economy Zone, the Phnom Penh-Sihanoukville Expressway, the Siem Reap Angkor International Airport, and hydroelectric power plants, to name just a few, have been a key catalyst for trade and economic growth as well as poverty alleviation in Cambodia.
As part of the developing world, China always sides with developing countries, speaks up for them, offers assistance when needed, safeguards their legitimate rights and interests, and boosts their influence in international affairs.
Editor's note: Kin Phea is director general of the International Relations Institute of Cambodia, a think tank under the Royal Academy of Cambodia.
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Xinhua News Agency.