Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-03-28 06:58:00
The Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) President Tulia Ackson is pictured during an interview with Xinhua in Geneva, Switzerland, March 27, 2024.(Xinhua/Lian Yi)
GENEVA, March 27 (Xinhua) -- China and the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) have been collaborating extensively, particularly on issues concerning the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals, IPU President Tulia Ackson said here on Wednesday.
China has supported the IPU and contributed much to its operation, the IPU president noted in an interview with Xinhua.
Established in 1889, the IPU is one of the oldest and most influential international parliamentary organizations, headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland.
From March 23 to March 27, over 1,000 representatives from more than 150 countries participated in the 148th IPU assembly and related meetings here.
Ackson said China's contribution is evident in "every aspect" of IPU operations. She highlighted China's active participation in the general debate of the assembly, calling it a chance to learn about China's actions that are essential for achieving the goals of the IPU.
Hailing China's involvement in supporting the parliaments of developing countries to fulfill their duties, she said close collaboration between China and the IPU has enhanced the capacity of many developing countries' parliaments to fulfill their responsibilities in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
She also said the National People's Congress of China has cooperated with the IPU on several occasions to organize inter-regional seminars, which have played a "very instrumental" role in implementing the strategies of the IPU.
During the assembly, a video showcasing China's efforts to promote environmentally-friendly development was presented to the attendees. The video mentioned that China is a country of action in promoting global climate governance, and spares on efforts in promoting green development, energy revolution, and international cooperation on climate change, contributing significantly to global climate governance.
Ackson said the IPU has focused on how to address climate change. In order to ensure that parliaments around the world are "at the forefront" of addressing the issue, she said she looks forward to closer cooperation with China in this area. ■