Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-06-04 12:58:15
Pakistani Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif speaks during an interview with Chinese media in Islamabad, Pakistan, on May 30, 2024. (Xinhua/Ahmad Kamal)
by Xinhua writers Tang Binhui, Jiang Chao and Zhang Jingyao
ISLAMABAD, June 4 (Xinhua) -- "We are coming with serious plans to make our friendship become much higher than the Himalayas and deeper than the deepest ocean of the world," Pakistani Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif has said.
At the invitation of Chinese Premier Li Qiang, Sharif is on an official visit to China from Tuesday to Saturday.
"We are two iron brothers, our friendship is unshakable and our hearts beat together," Sharif said in an interview with Chinese media in Islamabad ahead of his China tour.
China has supported Pakistan through the most difficult times, and Pakistan considers China as one of the most trusted friends around the globe, he said.
Pakistan firmly adheres to the one-China principle, and this commitment will, as always, be unwavering, said the prime minister.
"There is absolutely total unanimity that people from all walks of Pakistan believe that Taiwan is an integral part of China, which, as our policy, comes from the core of our heart with no discussion at all," he said.
Sharif first visited China about 40 years ago, when he noticed that though underdeveloped, China was dedicated to meeting the basic needs of its people while vigorously developing modern science and technology.
"Today, China has become a giant through vision, hard work, and serious and untiring efforts," said Sharif.
"All doubts about the Chinese model have been rubbished by the evidence of history," he said.
Sharif said when he was elected as prime minister in March, Chinese President Xi Jinping congratulated him at the earliest time.
Expressing his gratitude to Xi, Sharif said the congratulations reflected the two countries' friendship, which will always be fresh in his mind.
Under Xi's leadership, China has alleviated millions of its people out of poverty, Sharif said, adding that one of the agenda items for his visit is to learn from the Chinese model about how to alleviate poverty in Pakistan and help people stand on their own feet.
Through the visit, Pakistan hopes to promote interaction between enterprises in both countries, utilize special economic zones and Pakistan's labor advantages to establish joint ventures, facilitate the transfer of industries and technologies, and enhance Pakistan's manufacturing output, to promote constructing upgraded China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, the prime minister said.
The China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative benefits people in participating countries, promotes cooperation, and advances the world towards a vision of shared prosperity and a better future, he said.
"Pakistan is willing to work with China to implement the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative, and the Global Civilization Initiative, which will bring peace, tranquility, progress, and prosperity to the world," he added.
Describing China as always proactive in promoting Pakistan's business, industry, trade, and agriculture, Sharif said Pakistan is willing to issue Panda bonds and expand Chinese yuan transactions and settlements.
Pakistan is willing to promote economic cooperation with China, learn from China's advanced experience in information technology and artificial intelligence, consolidate the ironclad friendship between the two countries, and achieve leapfrog development, he said.
Pakistan is also ready to learn from China's governance experience, deepen reforms and counter-corruption, create enabling circumstances for Chinese investors, and provide policy support for investors, focusing on fields that can benefit both peoples to modernize the economy, he said.
Highlighting the role of youth in cultural exchanges, Sharif said Pakistan is actively encouraging its young people to learn the Chinese language and study in China, and will create a favorable environment for Chinese tourists to visit Pakistan for exchanges and cooperation.
"Despite the hot weather, it still doesn't match the warmth of our hearts," said the prime minister. ■