Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-03-09 15:48:00
ZAGREB, March 9 (Xinhua) -- It is impossible to isolate China as China is indispensable for the world, Kresimir Macan, a Croatian political and economic expert, has said.
"Today, China is indispensable for the world. It is impossible to isolate China, although there are such attempts," Macan said in a recent interview with Xinhua. "The attempts of decoupling or de-risking from China will eventually backfire on those who impose them," he said.
China's economy, which is one of the top priorities of the ongoing "two sessions," is expected to maintain a stable annual growth in the upcoming years, in sharp comparison with that of Europe, where the shadow of recession has been looming over major economies, Macan said.
"China's growth contributes to the world economy, especially Europe, which is facing a new crisis," he said.
China's gross domestic product (GDP) grew 5.2 percent year-on-year to a new high of 126.06 trillion yuan (about 17.7 trillion U.S. dollars) last year, according to China's National Bureau of Statistics in January. The growth rate was higher than the government's annual target of around 5 percent and exceeded the 3-percent increase in 2022.
China seeks to achieve a GDP growth rate of around 5 percent for 2024, among a raft of key development objectives unveiled in the government work report earlier this week.
"I am convinced that large multinational companies, as well as smaller ones, will continue to look for cooperation with China, expand investments and negotiate new deals," he said.
The Croatian expert also spoke highly of the initiatives put forward by China, including the Global Development Initiative and the Belt and Road Initiative.
"In my opinion, every initiative that comes from China is welcomed. The old models are the past, and new ones need to be found to ensure global growth, and China's contribution is valuable," he said.
As for cooperation between Croatia and China, including the projects of the Peljesac Bridge and the Senj Wind Farm undertaken by Chinese companies in the country, the expert said that Croatia has benefited from the cooperation, and "there is room for much greater cooperation." ■