Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-05-31 13:20:45
by Dato' Abdul Majid Ahmad Khan
On May 31 of this year, Malaysia and China will mark a signature milestone in their bilateral relations as the two countries commemorate the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. It has been a journey of deepening mutual trust, respect and partnership since the signing of the Malaysia-China joint communique in Beijing on May 31, 1974, between second Malaysian Prime Minister Tun Abdul Razak and then Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai.
This anniversary is not just another number or event but embodies the achievement of both Malaysia and China in managing and nurturing the relationship and letting it develop into what it is today, healthy and robust. It is a relationship based on a strong foundation of multifaceted cooperation in all sectors. This year also marks the Malaysia-China friendship year as well as the 11th anniversary of the establishment of the comprehensive strategic partnership between Malaysia and China.
Malaysia and China are connected by history, trade and cultural contacts over thousands of years. The golden era of this contact and cooperation was during the Malacca Sultanate and the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644). Trade flourished during the Malacca Sultanate with deepening diplomacy, cultural and economic relations between the region and China. Malacca played host to the fleet of Admiral Zheng He for five times. His voyages became a symbol of China's friendship with the world. Today, many legends and historical sites related to Zheng can be found in Malacca and other parts of the world. As Malaysia-China relations were further strengthened through the formal ties established in May 1974, Malacca once again became a popular tourist destination for travelers from China.
The evolution and transformation of Malaysia-China relations following the establishment of diplomatic ties in 1974 is one of Malaysia's most successful diplomatic stories and an exemplary one, particularly to neighbors of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). Relations have been beneficial not only for Malaysia and China but to the ASEAN region as well. Hence, in commemorating this auspicious historical diplomatic milestone, we must salute the leadership of both Malaysia and China for their vision, courage and commitment to their bilateral friendship.
Over the past 50 years, both Malaysia and China underwent several tests and challenges in the pursuit of establishing mutual trust and confidence. The pace of normalization was slow at the beginning as the legacy of the Cold War was still alive.
As a young diplomat in Beijing in the 1980s and later as the ambassador to the People's Republic of China, I witnessed this challenging task first hand, as the officials of both countries did their best to break down various barriers to kickstart bilateral exchanges at all levels. Mutual suspicions then were still hindering the progress of normalization. China's reform and opening-up policy signalling China's readiness to engage with the world and to do business was a game changer. Malaysia responded positively to these developments and opened the way for facilitating and enhancing successful bilateral cooperation.
Over the years, as Malaysia and China have seen different administrations, and their interactions, particularly in the economic sector as well as regarding people-to-people exchanges flourished. This was made possible as mutual trust and recognition regarding each other's sensitive points became a focal point for further promoting bilateral relations.
Today, economic collaboration, trade, investment, tourism, education and infrastructure as well as people-to-people exchanges are the drivers of bilateral dynamism as the two countries welcome the golden jubilee of the establishment of diplomatic relations. Cooperation in the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) projects has provided an additional platform for the two countries to elevate their partnership to even greater heights.
The East Coast Railway Link and the Malaysia-China "Two Countries, Twin Parks," as two signature BRI projects, will further strengthen regional connectivity and economic integration between China, Malaysia, and ASEAN as well.
The benefits to Malaysia in terms of increased employment, technology transfer and growth are clear. As the BRI moves to another phase emphasizing high-quality development, Malaysia is expected to further benefit in terms of technology transfer.
The recent visa-free travel waiver has proven itself to be an effective catalyst in promoting people's mobility. It is expected that these measures will further boost the flow of tourists, students and people from all walks of life, providing more effective knowledge-sharing, cultural understanding and unique experiences for the people of the two countries.
The visa-free travel policy together with the establishment of the Xiamen University branch campus in Malaysia clearly show that Malaysia-China relations have reached maturity with mutual trust and respect firmly in place. This was indeed a far cry from restrictions in the past when people's mobility faced numerous obstacles. It is expected that cultural exchanges and business interactions will further flourish and contribute to greater mutual understanding between Malaysia and China.
The joint communique between Malaysia and China continues to be the fundamental principle underpinning the relations of Malaysia and China.
Over the past five decades, our two countries have remained committed to the provisions of the communique, particularly relating to peaceful co-existence despite the differences in social systems. This adherence has contributed to the enduring friendship between Malaysia and China.
Despite changes in the leaderships of the two countries in the past half century, the policy of forging strong bilateral ties and mutual trust remains unchanged. In Malaysia, all the prime ministers after Tun Abdul Razak have not only enjoyed the legacy of maintaining firm ties with China, but they have all successfully built upon the achievements of their predecessors in further consolidating bilateral ties.
Malaysia's 10th and current prime minister, Anwar Ibrahim, who took office one and a half years ago, has made several positive remarks reiterating Malaysia's commitment to strong Malaysia-China ties and reemphasizing Malaysia's strategic independent foreign policy, reflecting the spirit of the 1974 joint communique.
In conclusion, as the two nations move ahead to further build upon the achievements of the last 50 years, we can be optimistic that the prospects will be bright indeed. The two countries are expected to remain committed to the spirit of the Malaysia-China joint communique and will strive to build an interconnected future with both peoples enjoying shared prosperity.
Editor's note: Dato' Abdul Majid Ahmad Khan is president of the Malaysia-China Friendship Association.
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Xinhua News Agency. ■