Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-10-19 12:58:00
MADRID, Oct. 19 (Xinhua) -- Collaboration projects with China on green hydrogen reinforce Spain's potential in renewable energy and contribute to its decarbonization objectives, Javier Brey, president of the Spanish Hydrogen Association (AeH2), has said.
Citing a deal reached between the Spanish Ministry of Industry and China's Envision Energy in September to develop an electrolyzer manufacturing plant in Spain with an expected investment of 1 billion U.S. dollars, Brey depicted it as "a significant milestone for Spain."
The deal "strengthens Spain's leadership in the renewable hydrogen industry and advances its decarbonization objectives," Brey told Xinhua in a recent interview.
"At AeH2, we highly value this decision as it further builds upon the strong foundation and significant potential we have in renewable energy, technology and industrial capacity," he said.
Spanish companies have been manufacturing electrolyzers for decades, while universities and research centers are pioneering cutting-edge hydrogen technologies, Brey said. "Each announcement that boosts this industry helps us progress towards our goal of consolidating the renewable hydrogen value chain in Spain and moving toward a more sustainable future."
Brey voiced confidence that strategic investments and partnerships will enable Spain to expand hydrogen production capacity and boost related technologies, thereby helping achieve its goals both nationally and across Europe.
In its energy and climate plan 2023-2030 approved in September, the Spanish government increased its target of electrolyzers for green hydrogen production capacity to 12 gigawatts by 2030.
International cooperation is essential for the development of the hydrogen industry in Spain, as "it allows us to share knowledge, technologies and resources," said the expert.
The development of green hydrogen can also be an engine of economic revitalization for regions suffering from depopulation in Spain as it will generate employment, attract investments and develop local infrastructure, he said. According to the Spanish government, the plant invested by Envision will generate more than 1,000 direct and indirect jobs.
Brey said that there is still "a long way to go" and it is crucial to continue to have financial incentives, develop a clear regulation, ensure an adequate infrastructure and consolidate public-private collaboration. ■