Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-08-19 14:32:30
by Xu Jiatong, Dai He
NAIROBI, Aug. 19 (Xinhua) -- Technological cooperation and digital innovation are key to fostering mutual growth and prosperity and deepening the relationship between China and Kenya, a Kenyan expert has said.
"China is very strategic in offering affordable technology," which is crucial for Kenya to leverage, especially considering the expensive technologies from Europe, said James Shikwati, a Kenyan libertarian economist and the director of the Inter Region Economic Network, in an interview with Xinhua.
Shikwati underscored China's importance as a major importer of Kenyan avocados and expressed Kenya's eagerness to enhance its agricultural value chain.
He emphasized the need for Kenya to create platforms for research exchanges with China.
Kenya could tap into areas of synergy with China by facilitating expert exchanges and transferring relevant technologies, Shikwati said.
He spoke of China's prominence as a digital powerhouse, citing platforms like Alibaba as an example, and emphasized the potential for collaboration with Kenya's M-Pesa system.
"There's an opportunity for exchanges in digital technology," he said, adding that a regulatory framework facilitating e-commerce and interoperable payment systems could be of great value.
Shikwati also touched on China's support in helping Kenya achieve its sustainable development goals, particularly through the adoption of solar technology, and the importance of Chinese manufacturers in supplying solar panels for private use in Kenyan households.
The Kenyan expert spoke highly of the Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation to be held in Beijing in September, expressing his hope for Africa to become a major player in the Chinese market.
Looking into the future, Shikwati stressed the need for Africa to be actively engaged in the developments of digital technology and artificial intelligence.
It will be strategic for China to prioritize involving Africa in learning about the latest trends and create training opportunities for Africans, he said.
Shikwati voiced optimism for a shared future that promotes culture, peace and prosperity.
"Creating possibilities for a shared future aligns well with the aspirations of both China and Kenya," he added. ■