Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-09-26 17:20:30
LJUBLJANA, Sept. 26 (Xinhua) -- China holds the "most reasonable and promising views" on the international situation, global relations and the state of international community, Slovenia's former President Danilo Turk said.
"China is one of the most important states in all aspects, not only politically, but also in terms of economy, technology, science and more," Turk said in a recent telephone interview with Xinhua.
Turk, a professor of international law, served as Slovenia's president from 2007 to 2012.
He mentioned his upcoming participation in the China International Friendship Conference next month, where he looks forward to engaging in interesting discussions and exploring new ideas.
China has launched three significant global initiatives focused on development, security, and global civilization, Turk noted. However, he emphasized that some of China's ideas are not fully understood in all parts of the world, underscoring the need for further discussion and dialogue to enhance understanding of these initiatives.
China is at the center of global developments in many ways, as it introduces "constructive, interesting, and potentially successful" ideas, he said.
China's initiative to build a community with a shared future for mankind is one of the cornerstone principles of Chinese foreign policy and a key pillar for the future organization of the international community, he added.
He described the initiative as offering an alternative to the numerous conflicts currently affecting the world, presenting instead "a world of shared future" and reflecting the idea that "the future is something that is being built together."
The 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China demonstrates that the Chinese population has an unbelievable power, which has enabled it to grasp the circumstances and the need for development over the past decades, allowing reforms to yield rapid results, he said.
Following a phase of widespread industrialization that established China as "the main factory of the world," the country is now entering another stage of development where quality takes precedence over quantity, he added.
"Quality demands technological advancement and innovation in all areas, including environmental protection, where China is now leading the way," Turk said, adding that the results demonstrate the success of Chinese leadership.
He said China is capable of establishing clear and well-considered priorities. "The Communist Party of China has demonstrated an ability to recognize new realities, understand the New Era, and guide development from intensive production towards a more technological, innovative, and environmentally sustainable path," Turk said.
Based on observations from abroad, "China's orientation is clear and promises further results," he added.
According to Turk, China's initiative of rejuvenation of the Chinese nation to the world demonstrates its openness.
Supporting China's idea of opening up to international tourism, he said people need to see and have contacts with China,by visiting the country, participating in its education programs, setting up business connections and attending professional conferences -- essentially anything that encourages communication. ■