Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-10-24 15:36:47
by Joseph Matthews
With an expanded membership, BRICS has become a pivotal force in promoting global peace and stability, economic recovery, and governance, advocating for a more equitable and orderly multipolar world.
Originally composed of Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa, BRICS has grown into a significant international cooperation platform. Following its expansion in the past year, the new members have further strengthened BRICS' influence.
BRICS has consistently championed the principles of openness, inclusivity, cooperation, and mutual benefit. It has become a catalyst for safeguarding global peace, advancing shared prosperity, enhancing global governance, and facilitating the democratization of international relations.
The group has also staunchly defended multilateralism and the free trade system while calling for reforms in global governance to amplify the voices of emerging markets and developing countries.
The 16th BRICS Summit, taking place in the Russian city of Kazan from Tuesday to Thursday, marks the first top-level meeting following the group's expansion. Recent statistics indicate that BRICS countries now account for about 30 percent of the global GDP, nearly half of the world's population, and one-fifth of global trade.
The summit is being held at a critical juncture, as the world faces two major conflicts -- one in Europe and another in the Middle East -- both of which have triggered significant global uncertainties. These conflicts, fueled by external players with vested interests, are worsening challenges like food security, economic instability, and disruptions in global supply chains.
The summit offers a crucial opportunity for world leaders to advocate for political solutions to these conflicts. Dialogue and negotiation remain the only viable pathway to de-escalating these crises and preventing further harm to global peace and economic progress.
Editor's note: Joseph Matthews is a senior professor at the BELTEI International University in Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
The views expressed in this article are those of the author's and do not necessarily reflect those of Xinhua News Agency.