Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-12-31 20:13:32
BEIJING, Dec. 31 (Xinhua) -- China extended deep condolences Monday over the passing of former U.S. President Jimmy Carter, a promoter and key decision-maker of the establishment of U.S.-China diplomatic ties.
For the Chinese people, Carter will be remembered for his historic contributions to the normalization of China-U.S. relations and his consistent devotion to promoting mutual understanding and friendship between the two peoples.
Nearly half a century ago, the leaders of China and the United States, with extraordinary political courage and great vision, made the historic decision to establish diplomatic ties. This milestone move has brought significant benefits to the peoples of the two countries and promoted world peace and development.
At that time, China was embarking on its journey of reform and opening up. Carter was committed to enhancing cooperation with China in fields including economy, trade and student exchange. The establishment of diplomatic relations opened up new market space for U.S. companies and gave Chinese businesses greater opportunities to learn from the advanced U.S. experience.
Carter once said that the greatest thing he did during his presidency was helping forge diplomatic ties with China. Carter's devotion to deepening the Sino-U.S. friendship extended from his days in office to the years after he left office. He visited China multiple times to support cooperation and promote exchange and friendship.
Carter had long supported student exchange programs between the two countries. When the Chinese leadership requested to send 5,000 Chinese students to further their studies in the U.S. in the late 1970s, Carter said China "could send 100,000." Even during his late years, he continued to leverage his influence to promote the interactions between the two peoples. In January 2021, he wrote to the then president-elect Joe Biden to facilitate visa applications for Chinese students.
"The United States and China need to build their futures together, for themselves and for humanity at large," Carter said in a signed article in 2018. In his greeting message to the 2021 Understanding China Conference, he said that it is essential for the two nations to appreciate each other.
Over the decades, China-U.S. relations, one of the most important bilateral relationships in the world, have gone through ups and downs. In recent years, the anti-China rhetoric has severely distorted some Americans' perception of China, while those friendly to China have come under huge pressure and even risked political marginalization.
Irrational "decoupling" attempts and new Cold War mentality undermine the hard-won fruits of cooperation between the two countries and risk endangering the stability and prosperity of the future of the two countries and the world. Now, Washington is in urgent need of political leaders like Carter who have the correct perception of China and can work with China to boost bilateral cooperation for the welfare of both peoples and the global development.
Carter's contributions to U.S.-China relations and his legacy deserve remembering and cherishing. History has shown that cooperation between China and the United States benefits the two peoples, as well as world peace, stability and development.
As Wednesday marks the 46th anniversary of the establishment of China-U.S. diplomatic ties, it is hoped that Carter's legacy will inspire more people in both countries to enhance friendship and promote practical cooperation, so as to guarantee a sound, stable and sustainable bilateral relationship. ■