Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-09-02 21:38:30
ACCRA, Sept. 2 (Xinhua) -- China's development has inspired Africa's modernization path and serves as a valuable model for the continent, said Paul Frimpong, executive director of the Africa-China Center for Policy and Advisory, a Ghana-based think tank.
In a recent interview with Xinhua ahead of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) summit, Frimpong highlighted the shared similarities between China and Africa in their pursuit of modernization.
China's journey from pre-modernization to its current state offers valuable lessons for Africa, which is striving to modernize, he said. "If an African country is looking for a development model, China's example is the perfect one."
The 2024 FOCAC Summit, scheduled for Sept. 4 to 6 in Beijing, will bring together leaders from China and African countries under the theme "Joining Hands to Advance Modernization and Build a High-Level China-Africa Community with a Shared Future." The summit aims to strengthen friendships and outline the future of cooperation between the two sides.
China's support for Africa, particularly in infrastructure development, plays a crucial role in advancing the continent's modernization, Frimpong said. "Africa needs significant investments in infrastructure, such as roads, railways and power, to unlock its potential and create jobs, aligning with the African Union's Agenda 2063 goals."
He said that although infrastructure investments come from various partners to boost Africa's efforts to bridge the infrastructure gap and strengthen its modernization, China's support surpasses all other partners.
"No country has come close to the amount and level of investment that we have received from China in infrastructure investment in the past decades," he said.
In addition to infrastructure, Frimpong praised China's contributions to human resource development in Africa. He said the Luban Workshop, which equips African youth with essential vocational and technical skills, is a key initiative.
These skills, he said, are vital for driving development across multiple sectors and ensuring Africa's human resources are prepared to lead modernization efforts.
"African people are the assets that we have. So, if you have a partner that provides a form of training and support to your people, then you can see that partner is helping you on your modernization journey," Frimpong said. ■