Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-06-09 14:36:15
Primary school students have free meals provided by the China Foundation for Rural Development (CFRD) in Yangon, Myanmar, June 6, 2024. As Myanmar's 2024-25 academic year begins on June 3, the CFRD is providing free meals to primary school students across 10 schools in Hlaingtharya Township of Yangon Region. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)
YANGON, June 9 (Xinhua) -- As Myanmar's 2024-25 academic year begins on June 3, the China Foundation for Rural Development (CFRD) is providing free meals to primary school students across 10 schools in Hlaingtharya Township of Yangon Region.
Students and parents expressed gratitude to the donors for the free meals program, highlighting the positive impact on their daily lives and education.
Thoon Wati Htet, a third-grade student at Basic Education Primary School (42) in Hlaingtharya Township, had lunch provided by the CFRD on Thursday. "Today, we had chicken curry for lunch. I enjoy both chicken and pork curries. I feel happy and grateful to the donors. When I grow up, I want to become a school teacher," she said happily while enjoying her meal.
Khant Hmu Ko Ko, 10, another third-grader from the same school, also shared on Thursday, "I feel thankful to the people who donated the food. These meals are great for students like us who are facing some challenges. And they taste delicious too."
Ko Shwe War Tun, project manager of the CFRD's Smiling Children Program, the free meal program for the students, said they provide free lunch to over 5,000 primary school students from 10 basic education schools in Yangon for the whole academic year.
"The purpose of the program is to provide good nutrition to students, create job opportunities, and improve students' learning capacity," he said.
"We work in cooperation with respective township education offices. We provide breakfast with traditional snacks and lunch with one type of curry and a vegetable," he added.
The program will cover all the primary school students from 10 schools in Hlaingtharya Township and is slated to continue for the next three academic years, he said.
Not only the students but also their parents are happy and grateful to the donors for the student nutrition program.
"I'm very happy. Sometimes, we don't have regular meals and have to skip some. Now, I don't need to prepare a lunch box for my daughter. I also wish the donors happiness and health. My daughter is my youngest of five children," said Daw Nwe Nwe Win, 49, a mother of a second-grader from the school.
Another parent, Khin Thida Hlaing, told Xinhua that it is a tough time for them because of rising commodity prices. "I'm grateful to the donors and wish them prosperity and more donation. I have two children. Some parents here find it hard to prepare lunch boxes."
Daw Khin Htay Yee, 70, a grandmother of a fifth grader, said, "I'm very happy. My grandchild is in grade five. Especially for families without a father or mother, it is difficult to prepare lunch for the students. I wish the donors success and a long life."
The headmistress of the school, with 600 students, also thanked the donors for the free meals for her students. "Because of the free lunch program, school attendance and learning rates have improved a lot," she said.
"Now, my poor students can learn without worrying about their meals. I'm very happy for them. They are the bright stars of our nation's future," she added. ■
Primary school students prepare to have free meals provided by the China Foundation for Rural Development (CFRD) in Yangon, Myanmar, June 6, 2024. As Myanmar's 2024-25 academic year begins on June 3, the CFRD is providing free meals to primary school students across 10 schools in Hlaingtharya Township of Yangon Region. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)
Primary school students have free meals provided by the China Foundation for Rural Development (CFRD) in Yangon, Myanmar, June 6, 2024. As Myanmar's 2024-25 academic year begins on June 3, the CFRD is providing free meals to primary school students across 10 schools in Hlaingtharya Township of Yangon Region. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)
Primary school students prepare to have free meals provided by the China Foundation for Rural Development (CFRD) in Yangon, Myanmar, June 6, 2024. As Myanmar's 2024-25 academic year begins on June 3, the CFRD is providing free meals to primary school students across 10 schools in Hlaingtharya Township of Yangon Region. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)
Primary school students prepare to have free meals provided by the China Foundation for Rural Development (CFRD) in Yangon, Myanmar, June 6, 2024. As Myanmar's 2024-25 academic year begins on June 3, the CFRD is providing free meals to primary school students across 10 schools in Hlaingtharya Township of Yangon Region. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)
Staff members dispense free meals provided by the China Foundation for Rural Development (CFRD) for primary school students in Yangon, Myanmar, June 6, 2024. As Myanmar's 2024-25 academic year begins on June 3, the CFRD is providing free meals to primary school students across 10 schools in Hlaingtharya Township of Yangon Region. (Photo by Myo Kyaw Soe/Xinhua)