Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-02-24 12:09:45
Antigua and Barbuda's prime minister Gaston Browne speaks during an interview with Xinhua in St. John's, capital of Antigua and Barbuda, Feb. 1, 2024. (Xinhua/Li Mengxin)
by Xinhua writers Xi Yue and Miao Peiyuan
ST. JOHN'S, Feb. 24 (Xinhua) -- Antigua and Barbuda's prime minister said his country would enhance its relationship with China across several areas.
"We will be enhancing, strengthening and broadening the bilateral relationship between Antigua and Barbuda and the People's Republic of China," said Prime Minister Gaston Browne in an interview with Xinhua.
"We've had a very successful visit to China in which we have signed up to ten cooperation agreements in various areas of our development," he said in the capital St. John's after concluding his official visit to China.
During his visit to China, the two countries signed several bilateral cooperation documents on Belt and Road cooperation, trade, transportation, economic development, mutual visa exemption and climate change.
Antigua and Barbuda is an island country in the Eastern Caribbean with a population of more than 100,000. "In terms of the asymmetry of the size, power and resources, China always has exercised full respect and treated us with the type of respect that we have not seen in other relationships," Browne said, adding that the type of respect and mutual trust has built the relationship.
Antigua and Barbuda is one of the first countries in the Eastern Caribbean to establish diplomatic ties with China. "The two countries have enjoyed very strong diplomatic relations for the last 41 years," Browne emphasized.
Over the years, the cooperative relations between Antigua and Barbuda and China have developed steadily in infrastructure, economic and trade investment, people-to-people exchanges, agriculture and climate change, he said.
Antigua and Barbuda is the first country in the Eastern Caribbean to sign a memorandum of understanding with China on the Belt and Road Initiative. In Browne's view, "under the Belt and Road Initiative and the Global Development Initiative, China has been delivering tangible benefits to developing countries globally. These are projects helping us to spur economic growth, increase revenue and to provide opportunities for people."
"We have received support in practically all areas of development." Browne praised China for helping his country with disaster relief. "During the period of our crisis with hurricane Irma in 2017, China was one of the first movers and one of the largest contributors to our recovery. We are thankful and very grateful."
During the visit to China, Browne visited Beijing, Zhejiang and Shanghai. This is his second visit after nearly 10 years, remarking on changes in the country's urban landscape and digitalization.
Browne also said Antigua and Barbuda could bolster its green credentials via Chinese technology.
Antigua and Barbuda will host the fourth International Conference on Small Island Developing States in May. Browne said that Antigua and Barbuda attaches great importance to the sustainable development goals, to which China has made significant contributions.
As for regional cooperation, Browne said that as a member of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States and the Caribbean Community, Antigua and Barbuda is willing to "cooperate to promote the relations between China and other Caribbean countries and encourage them to continue, to strengthen the relationship with China."
"We could utilize our influence and make sure that you know there is greater collaboration and cooperation going forward in the future," he added.
In Browne's view, the people-to-people exchanges between the two countries are also full of highlights and have broad space for cooperation. "Even though we have very limited financial and human resources, we have large ambitions for our people. In order to achieve those, we need to have a carriage of well-qualified people. This is where China is helping us," he said.
Antigua and Barbuda has a pleasant climate, rich tourism resources and many high-quality beaches. Browne welcomed Chinese tourists to travel to Antigua and Barbuda.
At present, Antigua and Barbuda and China have mutually exempt visa policies. Browne expressed his hope to see Chinese tourists soon in Antigua and Barbuda. Enditem
(Xinhua reporters Zhao Kai, Yan Liang, Li Mengxin and Xuan Liqi contributed to this story.)
Antigua and Barbuda's prime minister Gaston Browne speaks during an interview with Xinhua in St. John's, capital of Antigua and Barbuda, Feb. 1, 2024. (Xinhua/Li Mengxin)