Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-04-03 14:46:30
by Xinhua writer You Zhixin
SHANGHAI, April 3 (Xinhua) -- GE Aerospace "remains steadfast with its 'In China, For Global' strategy amid global challenges" and its global management "has more opportunities to engage with China" after the spin-off, Xiang Weiming, vice president of GE Aerospace and president of GE Aerospace Greater China, has said.
GE Aerospace was officially launched as an independent public company Tuesday, which, together with the launch of GE Vernova, represent the completion of GE's multi-year financial and operational transformation.
The spin-off will bring enhanced operational focus and agility, resulting in an improved service experience to Chinese customers, Xiang told Xinhua in a recent interview.
"Before the planned spin-off, global management had to focus on numerous business lines. Now GE Aerospace is more focused, allowing global management more time and opportunities to visit China and engage in deeper communication and interaction with the Chinese government and customers," he said.
H. Lawrence Culp, Jr., Chairman & CEO of GE Aerospace is also optimistic about the benefit of the spin-off on China.
"We are excited about the opportunities that come with transitioning into a standalone company, including greater focus and strategic flexibility to grow our business and serve customers, including those in China where over 7,700 GE/CFM engines are in service," he said Tuesday.
GE Aerospace's local services in Greater China, including eight MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) facilities, two StoreFronts, and an On Wing Support facility, are a testament to its commitment to the region, said Xiang.
Xiang emphasized the company's resilience and adaptability in maintaining its "In China, For Global" strategy, citing the Fleet Support Center in Shanghai, its only engine technical support center outside U.S., which provides remote engine monitoring and diagnosis services for global airline customers around the clock.
He said GE Aerospace's recent additional investment of 5.2 million U.S. dollars in their Suzhou plant is set to increase production capacity for LEAP engines and commence mass production of the GE9X engine.
On GE Aerospace's performance in China, Xiang said that successful commercial maiden flight of the C919, powered by LEAP-1C engines, and the smooth operation of LEAP-1A engines with zero in-flight shutdowns since its EIS (enter into service), were among the notable milestones.
Looking ahead, Xiang expressed optimism about China's aviation market, which is on track to become the world's largest by 2042. "We are well-positioned with over 7,700 engines in service and a strong partnership with COMAC (Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China) to support China's civil aviation industry," he said.
He also expounded on GE Aerospace's plans for strengthening MRO service network in China, including the On Wing Support facility in Shanghai. The facility's strategic location enables efficient on-site support for aircraft like the C919 and ARJ21, significantly reducing turnaround times.
On the topic of sustainability, Xiang outlined GE Aerospace's carbon reduction roadmap, in which supporting the adoption of Sustainable Aviation Fuel and the development of breakthrough technologies like the RISE (Revolutionary Innovation for Sustainable Engines) program and hybrid electric propulsion are part of GE's commitment to a more sustainable future.
GE Aerospace is a global aerospace propulsion, services, and systems leader with an installed base of approximately 44,000 commercial and 26,000 military aircraft engines. It now has a global team of 52,000 employees, according to official figures released by the company. ■