Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-04-12 20:25:15
KHARTOUM, April 12 (Xinhua) -- The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) is sounding the alarm on Sudan's worsening food security crisis, urging warring parties to lay down arms and allow humanitarian access.
"FAO calls for urgent and unified action before it's too late," Adam Yao, FAO deputy representative in Sudan, said in an exclusive interview with Xinhua.
"About 18 million Sudanese are in need of food aid due to the escalating crisis. Immediate assistance is required," stated Yao.
Yao also noted that the fighting between the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) hindered farmers and pastoralists from accessing the agricultural lands or pastoral areas, disrupting food production and the movement of livestock.
He stressed the need for a ceasefire to enable aid delivery, and appealed "to all parties to consider the opening of humanitarian corridors, to stop the fighting and to allow the humanitarian actors to reach the people who are waiting for our support."
The FAO official also urged the international community to provide more funds to enable the humanitarian community to provide support for more people.
"The number of food insecure people has not reduced. And we need more support for Sudanese farmers to produce more food. So the help from the international community is essential," he said.
Since April 15, 2023, Sudan has experienced violent confrontations between SAF and RSF, resulting in the displacement of around 8.1 million individuals, including 6.3 million internally. The United Nations reports that half of Sudan's populace, approximately 25 million individuals, requires humanitarian aid and protection. Among them, nearly 18 million are grappling with severe food shortages.
Yao observed that the conflict has disrupted the entire food system in Sudan, impacting everything from production and transport to access, availability, utilization, and even price stability.
Sudan, endowed with vast expanses of arable land and abundant water resources, has the potential to be self-sufficient in food, Yao said. However, he pointed out that economic decline, soaring inflation, and escalating costs for agricultural inputs have hindered this capability. The financial strain on farmers, unable to afford labor or necessary supplies, has disrupted the nation's food supply chain.
In response, the FAO has developed a plan to aid smallholder farmers in maintaining their livelihoods.
Yao said the FAO has distributed 10,000 tonnes of certified sorghum seeds, which is projected to yield between 2-3 million tonnes of the crop.
The sorghum could feed between 13 to over 19 million people, based on an annual consumption rate of 152 kilograms per person," Yao added. ■