Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-12-27 18:43:45
by Xin Ping
Some Western politicians have been quite active in their attempts to discredit China, concocting tales and spreading disinformation ranging from "China threat" to "China collapse" and "Peak China." Their latest allegation is that China is exporting its "overcapacity" and jeopardizing the manufacturing industries of developing countries, causing what they call "China shock 2.0."
This accusation is a stark departure from reality.
China, having experienced rapid growth in recent decades, has become the world's second-largest economy, and it stays a committed member of the Global South. Facing similar challenges in pursuit of development, China and other developing countries are natural partners who focus on boosting growth and enhancing livelihoods.
In contrast to the assertions of some Western politicians, China's development is not a threat to other countries. Instead, it is the wellspring of opportunities for the world. More importantly, China's journey of pursuing development has provided empirical insights and confidence for other developing nations to blaze their own paths of development.
Statistics reveal the significant role of China's investments in the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) partner countries. By the end of 2023, the stock of China's direct investment in these countries exceeded 300 billion U.S. dollars, with Chinese companies contracted for projects worth more than 1.4 trillion dollars. By the end of June, China has built more than 100 overseas economic and trade cooperation zones across 46 countries, contributing more than 13.3 billion dollars in taxes and fees to the host countries.
The capital, technology and cost-effective equipment from China have played a vital role in facilitating the industrial transformation and economic growth in these partner countries.
Meanwhile, China actively embraces quality products from the developing world, sharing the opportunities of China's vast domestic market.
China is the largest export market for 44 countries and regions, and ranks among the top five export markets for 104 countries and regions. In 2023 alone, China imported 2.56-trillion-dollar worth of goods, securing its position as the world's second-largest importer of goods for the 15th consecutive year.
Contrary to claims that it seeks a trade surplus, China is actively opening its market wider. Starting from Dec. 1, China has granted zero-tariff treatment to all tariff line products from the least developed countries with which it has diplomatic relations, marking the first major developing country and the first major economy to do so. China has also hosted the China International Import Expo, the world's first national expo of its kind, for seven consecutive years, achieving a cumulative intended trade volume of over 420 billion dollars.
Furthermore, China has been dedicated to expanding green and innovative cooperation with developing countries, propelling green transition and capacity building of these countries.
Under the BRI framework, China has launched, in cooperation with BRI partner countries, several exchange and cooperation platforms for green development, signed 52 South-South cooperation documents on climate change with 42 developing countries, and implemented more than 80 climate change mitigation and adaptation projects. China-built solar and wind power plants are now a familiar sight across the developing world.
China takes an open-minded approach to international science cooperation, working to bolster the scientific and technological capabilities of fellow developing countries through joint research, technology transfers, industrial park cooperation programs and people-to-people exchanges.
Since 2013, China has signed intergovernmental agreements on science cooperation with more than 80 BRI partner countries, and established more than 50 BRI joint laboratories, more than 70 overseas industrial parks, nine cross-border technology transfer centers and 10 overseas science and education cooperation centers. The cooperation covers a wide range of areas from agriculture and health care to information technology, new energy sources and basic research.
China has also sponsored more than 10,000 young scientists from BRI partner countries for short-term scientific research and exchange programs in China. Additionally, it has trained over 16,000 technicians and managerial professionals from these countries, equipping them with the skills and knowledge necessary to drive innovation and development in their home nations.
The above endeavors of China, with the ultimate goal of benefiting the people of developing countries, have delivered fruitful outcomes over the years.
In the past three years, Chinese companies have created 1.1 million jobs for host countries in Africa, and at least another million jobs are projected to be created in the next three years. China's cooperation with Latin America has led to the creation of nearly one million local jobs, and the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor has directly provided 236,000 jobs for local populations.
Since the implementation of the BRI, China has helped partner countries lift over 40 million people out of poverty. In Cambodia, Myanmar, Zimbabwe and Djibouti, a large number of China-aided "small and beautiful" livelihood projects such as well drilling, housing, medical care, and rural road construction have been carried out to satisfy the immediate needs of the local communities.
These facts and figures speak volumes about China's commitment to promoting common development with other countries. Some Western politicians question this commitment, suggesting that China must have a hidden agenda. Their own modus operandi explains their suspicion. To quote a Chinese proverb, they are "measuring the heart of a gentleman with the mind of a petty man."
Chinese culture espouses this principle: "To stand tall, help others stand tall; to succeed, help others succeed." This philosophy underpins China's approach to fostering friendship and mutual interests. China holds the belief that helping others is good for oneself as well. It is backing up its words with concrete actions and fulfilling its role as a major developing country.
Editor's note: The author is a commentator on international affairs, writing regularly for Xinhua News Agency, CGTN, Global Times, China Daily, etc. He can be reached at xinping604@gmail.com.
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the positions of Xinhua News Agency.