Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-08-03 12:17:15
PHUKET, Thailand, Aug. 3 (Xinhua) -- Thailand and China have many consensuses and cooperation in marine conservation and disaster prevention, especially the establishment of the China-Thailand Joint Laboratory for Climate and Marine Ecosystems, which has become a model of international marine cooperation, Thai marine experts told Xinhua.
Tipamat Upanoi, director of Phuket Marine Biological Center, said during the interview that their center has achieved a series of results in cooperation with its Chinese counterparts in the marine field in recent years, one of which is the establishment of China-Thailand Joint Laboratory, providing a platform for marine cooperation between the two countries.
The China-Thailand Joint Laboratory for Climate and Marine Ecosystems was officially inaugurated in Phuket, Thailand in June 2013. As the first joint marine research facility between the two countries, the laboratory is operated by the First Institute of Oceanography, the Ministry of Natural Resources of China and the Phuket Marine Biological Center of Thailand.
"Protecting marine ecology is a global task that requires joint efforts from all countries," said Chalermrat Sangmanee, a fishery biologist from the Department of Marine and Coastal Resources Thailand, who is also the Thai director of the China-Thailand Joint Laboratory.
Chalermrat said both Thailand and China share a common view on jointly protecting the ocean, which is the main reason for the two sides to set up a joint laboratory, aiming to build a platform for cooperation in the marine field and promote marine ecological environment protection and sustainable development of marine resources.
He added that since its establishment more than ten years ago, the laboratory has been actively promoting cooperation in marine science and technology between the two countries, involving projects such as Southeast Asian marine forecasting system, coastal vulnerability research, endangered marine species protection, and marine spatial planning.
"From academic research exchanges, technology transfer to management experience sharing, we have greatly benefited from the platform mechanism of the joint laboratory, which has promoted the improvement of Thailand's overall marine research and ocean governance," said Chalermrat.
Another achievement for the laboratory is the development of the Thailand marine environment forecasting system. Tipamat said that the laboratory has installed a maritime search and rescue forecasting system and upgraded the marine environment forecasting system. Through long-term continuous observations, it provides scientific basis for observing wave trends and monitoring changes in seawater temperature. At the same time, it also plays an important role in Thailand's marine disaster forecasting and maritime search and rescue operations.
In recent years, climate change has profoundly impacted marine ecosystems. Affected by global warming, rising sea temperatures have also led to coral bleaching in Thailand's oceans, posing a threat to coral reef ecosystems. At present, the laboratory is taking protective measures to promote the restoration of marine ecosystems, said Chalermrat.
Tipamat said China's experience in ocean governance is worth learning from. The Chinese government has attached great importance to the construction of marine ecological civilization, continuously improving laws, regulations and institutional systems, and promoting the development of marine ecological environment protection in recent years.
"China is an active promoter of international cooperation in the marine field, and the laboratory is becoming a model of international ocean cooperation. We look forward to expanding and deepening cooperation in the marine field in the future, jointly promoting global ocean governance, and working together to respond to global marine challenges," Chalermrat said. ■