Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-12-16 16:35:30
by Neth Pheaktra
The close collaboration between Cambodian and Chinese news media reaffirms the two countries' long-standing and strong friendship, highlighting the media's vital role in promoting socio-economic development and international cooperation.
The Ministry of Information of the Kingdom of Cambodia is deeply committed to advancing the media industry, embracing digital transformation, and conveying authentic information about Cambodia to both domestic and international audiences. This dedication is evident in the ministry's engagement and cooperation with Cambodian media outlets, including radio stations, TV networks, and Chinese news agencies.
For example, we have collaborated with Chinese news organizations to conduct interviews and training sessions focused on news technology. These partnerships not only improved the quality of reporting but also promoted information sharing and mutual understanding between the two peoples.
Looking ahead, Cambodia is eager to unite and collaborate with news industries from other countries based on three key principles:
First, international communication extends beyond simply crossing borders. It entails bridging cultural, social, and economic backgrounds. The Cambodian Ministry of Information aims to enhance communication and interaction with news regulatory bodies and media organizations from various countries by hosting forums, seminars and workshops regularly.
Through mechanisms like the Lancang-Mekong Cooperation and support from China, Cambodia has successfully held such events. And, in this coming May 2025, we will co-host the 20th Asia Media Summit.
Second, media organizations from different countries should collaboratively explore innovative cooperation models. For instance, we can establish closer connections between print media, audiovisual platforms, and new media, engage in co-producing media products, and implement personnel exchange programs.
Furthermore, we can collaborate with businesses, educational institutions, and other organizations to expand resources and services linked to media, including economy and trade, culture, tourism, ecological protection, and community welfare. By doing so, we can strengthen the role of media as a bridge for in-depth exchanges and close cooperation among nations.
Third, we should fully harness the potential of social media platforms and new internet technologies. It is essential to focus on the application and advancement of these technologies, accelerate the intelligent development of media, and create high-quality content tailored to the evolving needs of audiences. By doing so, we can enhance mutual understanding among people from different countries while promoting the growth of the media industry.
However, technological advancements, such as the internet and artificial intelligence, have lowered the threshold for information dissemination, presenting challenges for the news industry. Relevant countries should collaborate to tackle the issue by guiding the media to effectively fulfill their social responsibilities, ensure fairness, objectivity, and accountability, and enhance public education on identifying false information.
With this regard, Cambodia will launch an anti-fake news campaign to ensure the provision of safe information and the public's access to trustworthy information.
I would say, "If people get food poisoned, it is easily treated. But if they are poisoned by fake news, their brains are spoiled, and it takes longer time to recover." We, therefore, call for joint efforts to promote "information diplomacy" to collectively combat fake news, mal-information and disinformation. This is a new war, a war in the digital era to eradicate fake news for the sake of safe information for all.
Editor's note: Neth Pheaktra is the Minister for Information of the Kingdom of Cambodia. The article is excerpted from the minister's recent speech at the third Yunnan International Communication Forum in Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture, Yunnan Province, China.
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Xinhua News Agency.