Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-06-27 20:43:15
BEIJING, June 27 (Xinhua) -- When U.S. Ambassador to China Nicholas Burns unjustly accuses China of hindering U.S.-China exchanges, the largest and most diversified youth exchange activity since the two countries established diplomatic ties is unfolding in Fuzhou, capital of southeast China's Fujian Province.
Guided by the principles of mutual respect, peaceful coexistence, and win-win cooperation in its relations with the United States, China is actively fostering goodwill to strengthen people-to-people and cultural exchanges with America and promote the stable and robust growth of China-U.S. relations.
Instead of erecting more barriers, the world's two largest economies should build more bridges and pathways for people-to-people interactions.
In fact, China has been actively promoting friendly interactions between Chinese and Americans. In addition to "Bond with Kuliang: 2024 China-U.S. Youth Festival," the above-mentioned youth exchange activity, this month also witnessed a cultural exchange program where a group of young people from China and the United States immersed themselves in China's rich heritage by visiting iconic sites like the Great Wall and the Forbidden City.
The program, part of the "Bridge of the Future" China-U.S. Youth Exchange Program, aims to foster communication, understanding, friendship and cooperation between Chinese and American youths to contribute to a healthy, stable and sustainable China-U.S. relationship.
More and more American students are expected to enjoy their China experience. In late 2023, the Chinese side announced it was ready to invite 50,000 young Americans to China on exchange and study programs in the following five years to increase exchanges between the two peoples, especially between the youth.
All these China-U.S. people-to-people interactions would ultimately nurture a positive atmosphere for the long-term development of the world's most consequential bilateral relationship.
Regrettably, Washington is not moving in the same direction as China. It has aggressively impeded cultural and people-to-people exchanges, citing national security concerns as justification.
American authorities have harassed, interrogated, and deported some Chinese students upon their arrival in the United States.
While incidents like these are not consequential in isolation, their cumulative destructive effects can eventually result in irreparable harm.
Washington's baseless accusations against China for obstructing people-to-people exchanges are both misleading and hypocritical. While ignoring the numerous efforts China has made to foster international collaboration, they are designed to deflect attention from the U.S. policies that have restricted visas and imposed sanctions.
The image of the United States in the eyes of the Chinese people is ultimately determined by the United States itself, said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Mao Ning on Wednesday.
Instead of slandering China, Washington should focus on redressing its own actions that have stifled genuine cultural and academic exchanges. ■