Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-11-28 10:49:00
by Martina Fuchs
GENEVA, Nov. 28 (Xinhua) -- China is developing a strong and healthy appetite for Switzerland's premium, artisanal and sustainably sourced chocolate, presenting an exciting potential for Swiss companies, the Association of Swiss Chocolate Manufacturers has said.
Swiss chocolate exports to China "are steadily increasing," Roger Wehrli, director of the association known as Chocosuisse, told Xinhua in a virtual interview recently.
The top export markets for the chocolate industry in 2023 were Germany, Britain, France, Canada, the United States, Spain, Australia, Italy, China and Belgium, the Swiss Federal Office for Customs and Border Security said.
"Swiss chocolate is well positioned in China," Wehrli said. "We have also experienced a strong growth over the last 10 years, having more than tripled our exports to China. There is far more potential in China for Swiss chocolate."
Chocosuisse data show that in 2023, the Swiss chocolate industry sold 207,807 tons of chocolate, including bars and small formats, couverture, chocolate confectionary, seasonal items, and powder.
The industry association, headquartered in Bern, brings together all the industrial Swiss manufacturers of chocolate and chocolate products and institutionalizes contact with the main importers.
"Globally, we've seen a growth in sales of 9.1 percent in the first half of 2024 compared to the previous year. This is largely attributed to increased raw material costs. We've got price increases in cocoa which make it quite challenging for the future," Wehrli said.
When asked about key demand and supply factors, Wehrli highlighted changing consumer preferences and an increasing appetite for premium, artisanal and sustainably sourced chocolate. "That's the kind of chocolate Switzerland is strong in," he said.
"We also see growing popularity and a market expansion for dark chocolate," Wehrli said. "We see a rising demand in emerging markets, particularly in Asia and in the Middle East."
"In China, we see that the Chinese very much appreciate the darker chocolate. We also see that Switzerland is globally known for its premium quality, and this fits the growing appetite among Chinese consumers for high-end imported products," said the director.
Regarding future opportunities for Swiss brands in China, Wehrli shared another observation. "Chocolate is becoming a popular gift for occasions like the Chinese New Year, Mid-Autumn Festival, Valentine's Day, etc." ■