Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-09-27 11:23:15
HANGZHOU, China, Sept. 27 (Xinhua) -- As a global leader in e-commerce, China is speeding up the digital transformation of markets worldwide, a Kazakh minister has said.
Chinese technologies and innovations are enhancing supply chains, making them faster and more efficient, while also improving access to goods and services, said Kazakh Minister of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry Zhaslan Madiyev in a written interview with Xinhua.
These developments contribute to making international trade more inclusive, said Madiyev during his stay in eastern China's Hangzhou City to attend the third Global Digital Trade Expo (GDTE).
The expo, running from Sept. 25 to 29, has attracted more than 1,500 enterprises, including over 300 international companies, and over 30,000 purchasers. It is currently China's sole national-level expo on the theme of digital trade.
As the guest country of honor at the expo this year, Kazakhstan views the event "as an opportunity to exchange experiences with leading global players in the digital economy and to expand economic ties between Kazakhstan and China," Madiyev said.
"We aim to deepen cooperation that will foster the growth of both our domestic markets and cross-border trade, as well as promote new initiatives that will benefit both Kazakhstan and the international community," he added.
This year's expo also marked a collaboration between the Zhejiang Electronic Port and the Customs Service of Kazakhstan in the realm of digital customs clearance. This partnership is expected to expedite cargo processing, lower costs, and enhance operational transparency.
The cooperation will open new opportunities for Kazakhstan, as streamlined customs clearance will help Kazakh companies access the Chinese market more quickly, said Madiyev.
As the place where the Belt and Road Initiative was first proposed, Kazakhstan has been actively integrating itself into the framework through collaborations in various fields, including the digital economy.
"Our geographic location at the intersection of Europe and Asia makes us a natural participant in these processes, and we see the digitalization of the Silk Road as a powerful tool to enhance logistics, trade, and information exchange," said Madiyev, pledging closer cooperation with China in areas such as e-commerce, digital finance, artificial intelligence, and big data technologies.
Leaders of both countries put heavy emphasis on strengthening Kazakhstan-China relations. "We are committed to fulfilling this strategic objective," he added. ■