Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-10-15 21:14:15
AMMAN, Oct. 15 (Xinhua) -- Ethnicity and religion are merely pretexts used by certain countries to fuel tensions between Arab countries and China, Mohammod Abu Shaikha, editor-in-chief of Al-Hayat newspaper in Jordan, has said.
Abu Shaikha visited northwestern China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region last October, where he toured many places including mosques, a vehicle exhibition, an anti-extremism exhibition, an Islamic education academy, a cotton machinery exhibit in Urumqi, Uyghur homes, a musical instrument exhibition and a candy factory.
During his visit to the anti-extremism exhibition, Abu Shaikha found that the challenges being addressed in Xinjiang -- such as efforts to counter intimidation and prevent social division -- are issues faced by many countries worldwide. He said that some nations are exploiting ethnicity and religion as tools to create conflict between Arab countries and China.
Having explored Xinjiang firsthand, he said that the narratives used by Western media regarding ethnic cleansing and oppression of minorities in the region are unfounded and lack evidence.
"Our experiences debunked the fabrications of some Western nations," he said, highlighting the role of religious centers and institutions that have been established to train religious leaders and promote moderate Islamic teachings among all Muslims in Xinjiang.
During his visit to Xinjiang, Abu Shaikha noted the region's remarkable development, characterized by its clean environment, new high-rise buildings, and overall economic stability. He attributed this to efforts by the central government in Beijing and local authorities in Xinjiang to improve residents' welfare, foster unity among ethnic groups, create job opportunities, and establish educational institutions.
He observed that the signs in the urban areas of Xinjiang are displayed in three languages: Uyghur, Chinese and English, allowing Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities to use their languages and preserve their cultural traditions.
"Muslims are living happy lives and enjoy the same freedom as any other Chinese citizens throughout the country. They can participate in parliamentary elections. In fact, it would be accurate to say that Muslims in Xinjiang experience at least as much freedom, if not more, than the rest of the Chinese populace," he said.
Abu Shaikha praised the Chinese government's favorable policies in Xinjiang, noting that the region's rich resources and agricultural potential have enabled the government to generate employment opportunities to improve the lives of its residents.
He pointed out that Western media had hindered Arab individuals from understanding the true situation in China. However, the Chinese government has effectively encouraged various segments of Arab nations to witness the lives of people in Xinjiang, including Muslims, enabling them to know the reality in China through their own media outlets.
Regarding the Beijing Declaration adopted in May at the 10th ministerial conference of the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum, Abu Shaikha emphasized its significance as it underscores Arab nations' support for non-interference in China's internal affairs, and the firm stance and important consensus of the two sides in promoting a ceasefire in Gaza, among others.
"China does not seek to interfere in the affairs of any Arab country but instead provides humanitarian and logistical aid," he said.
He said the Beijing Declaration also affirms the mutual support of both sides to combat terrorism and extremism, adding that the declaration is vital for Arab nations to enhance security, stability and safety in the region. ■