Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-07-05 20:21:17
SHANGHAI, July 5 (Xinhua) -- As artificial intelligence (AI) is set to reshape the world and usher in an era of remarkable progress and formidable challenges, much thought should be given to the governance of this novel technology.
To ensure AI works for the benefit of all nations, technology tribalism and outdated Cold War mentality must give place to a paradigm of cooperation and openness that fosters global unity and shared prosperity.
Such philosophy is central to China's endeavors for sound AI governance. This week saw the adoption of the United Nations resolution on AI capacity building, spearheaded by China, which advocates broader representation in AI governance and an open, fair, and non-discriminatory business environment.
At the on-going World Artificial Intelligence Conference (WAIC) in Shanghai themed "Governing AI for Good and for All," China reaffirmed its dedication to forging an inclusive AI ecosystem, a pledge that has won applause from the international audience, especially those from the Global South.
China and the United States, the two nations at the forefront of AI revolution, convened their first-ever meeting of inter-governmental dialogue on AI in Geneva in May.
Despite their growing consensus in establishing a framework to steer through the complexities of the rapidly evolving digital landscape, the U.S. escalating actions to disrupt the smooth flow of AI investment, technology and talent are hampering much-needed collaborative efforts.
The world faces no dearth of challenges, with climate change and transnational crime among the many that call for a unified international response. The governance of AI has emerged as an area of exceptional urgency, as this transformative yet nascent technology presents a landscape of more unknown risks.
Seeking to establish an exclusive AI alliance to preserve tech dominance is evidently at odds with the very principles that have thus far fueled AI's success, including open source and rapid iterations, and undermines sound governance of AI.
Also, tech hegemony driven by geopolitical motives poses another risk: it is leaving the vast majority of developing countries increasingly behind in an AI era, intensifying disparities that already plague our world.
To avert the specter of such a bleak future, China unveiled the Global AI Governance Initiative in October 2023, underscoring its advocacy for "AI for Good" within the United Nations framework.
Many countries in the Global South are grappling with significant challenges, such as the collection of data, scarcity of resources, and underdeveloped infrastructure, hindering their capacity to fully capitalize on AI's transformative potential and leaving them on the periphery of this technological revolution.
China has been doing lots of work to help developing countries grow AI-related capacity, installing hundreds of thousands of kilometers of fiberoptics and an expansive wireless network in Africa.
At a forum in Xiamen in April, China pledged to help promote the deployment of AI technology across various sectors in Africa, including agriculture, healthcare, education and urban management.
The future of AI is fraught with uncertainties. Harnessing its potential for common good is possible if countries opt for collaboration and inclusivity, which are much desired in today's world. ■