Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-12-25 14:22:45
by Burak Akinci
ANKARA, Dec. 25 (Xinhua) -- The China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) serves as a good example of equal and mutually beneficial cooperation between nations based on "win-win solutions," a Turkish expert told Xinhua in a recent interview.
"The BRI is a very important initiative to revive the ancient Silk Road, a cross-Eurasian land-based communication and trade network," said Ali Oguz Dirioz, an associate professor of international relations at Ankara's TOBB University of Economics and Technology.
China-Türkiye cooperation under the BRI has gained traction, with Türkiye's strategic position bridging Asia and Europe, Dirioz noted.
He added that over the past decade, the BRI has grown into an extensive cooperation network spanning three continents, offering a new model for multilateral cooperation amid growing global trade threats from conflicts and crises.
The initiative reflects the Chinese philosophy of peaceful cooperation between communities, Dirioz said.
"When Chinese President Xi Jinping said that China wants to jointly develop the BRI, this is exactly the message of the peaceful cooperative approach which is in line with the Chinese philosophy of fostering collaborative communities," he noted.
In 2013, Xi proposed jointly building a Silk Road Economic Belt and a 21st-Century Maritime Silk Road, now known as the BRI. Since then, transnational cooperation under the BRI has expanded from Eurasia to Africa, Latin America and the South Pacific.
A decade later, the BRI has evolved from a vision into reality, from a general framework into concrete projects. It has become the world's most popular international public good and the largest international cooperation platform, Dirioz said.
So far, over 150 countries and over 30 international organizations have signed cooperation documents with Beijing under the BRI, a testimony to its growing global appeal.
Data from China's Ministry of Commerce revealed that by the end of 2023, Chinese companies had established 17,000 overseas enterprises in BRI-participating countries, with direct investment stock surpassing 330 billion U.S. dollars. Meanwhile, overseas economic and trade cooperation zones built under the initiative had created 530,000 local jobs.
Dirioz called the initiative a model for promoting global growth, highlighting its transformative impact on infrastructure, trade, and technology, especially renewable energy technologies.
"China has been one of the most responsible nations in showing leadership for renewable energy and technology development, and also in regards to cooperation with its partners," Dirioz observed.
He explained that China possesses advanced technology in sectors such as solar and wind power generation, electric vehicle production, and other in-demand areas.
"China has made immense progress in renewable technologies, sustainable city designs and solar energy development," Dirioz added, saying that making these technologies accessible could improve livelihood in BRI-participating countries.
He also praised China's commitment to fair and mutually beneficial economic cooperation within its initiative, affirming that China seeks to share the benefits with all involved, rather than monopolizing them.
Dirioz stressed that the BRI underscores the message that the initiative "is not a monopoly of one nation but a consortium for the benefit of all the nations involved," offering "win-win solutions".
He noted several projects in Türkiye under the BRI, including major railway projects, which have contributed to people's daily lives and the transport of goods.
As a supporter of the BRI, Türkiye signed a memorandum of understanding with China in 2015 to align with its Middle Corridor plan, connecting Türkiye and Europe to China via a Trans-Caspian transport route.
Dirioz told Xinhua that these initiatives complement each other, with efforts underway to further integrate them beyond previous achievements.
"When we look at the Türkiye-China cooperation, especially regarding railroads, significant investments are being carried out continuously," he said.
The expert believes that Türkiye and China will continue to cooperate on implementing the initiative, adapting to the new realities of international trade, and driving global and regional economic development.
"The BRI, by enhancing connections, will strengthen regional and global interconnectivity, offering a significant opportunity for developing countries and emerging markets to foster efficient collaboration," Dirioz added. ■