Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-05-18 11:28:30
SHANGHAI/ROME, May 18 (Xinhua) -- An exhibition, co-organized by art museums in China and Italy, was staged recently in China's city of Shanghai.
Titled "The Venetian Painting from the Uffizi Galleries," the event runs until July 28, showcasing 49 works of Italian Renaissance painter Titian and other Venetian masters.
Titian's masterpiece "Flora," which depicts a young woman holding out a bouquet of flowers, was also exhibited in the Bund One Art Museum.
Based in the Italian city of Florence, the Uffizi Gallery is well-known for its ancient sculptures and collections of paintings, while the Bund One Art Museum is one of Shanghai's emerging landmarks.
In 2021, the two museums signed an agreement to hold 10 exhibitions within five years, marking one of the most extensive art cooperation projects between China and Italy.
The two museums have since co-curated four exhibitions, which have already attracted over 200,000 audiences and become one of Shanghai's "best place to visit."
"Flora is so beautiful. You can almost still feel her breath after hundreds of years. I got absorbed in the dreamy painting," said a Chinese visitor who called herself "half and half," posting photos on social media platforms.
Xie Dingwei, executive director of the Bund One Art Museum, said that the exhibitions travel across time and space, and were loved by young people in China, who pursue art, popularity, "facial attractiveness" and fashion.
Describing the exhibition in Shanghai as a unique experience, Anna Bisceglia, curator of the Uffizi Galleries, said "all colors of the exhibition hall are extracted from Titian's original paintings."
These art exhibitions are microcosms of the deepening dialogue and cooperation between China and Italy in the fields of museums and exhibitions.
Shanghai Museum, together with several Italian museums, has successfully held an exhibition called "Who is Leonardo da Vinci? -- Dialogue between Renaissance and Chinese Painting" recently.
All of these exhibitions are jointly organized by museums of both China and Italy, in order to boost dialogue and share beauty.
Eike Schmidt, former director of the Uffizi Galleries, said the success of Italian art in China is exciting. "We need to have more art dialogues, just as friends need to talk," he added. ■