Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-12-08 21:01:00
Song Ruirong, a Chinese teacher of the Confucius Institute at Addis Ababa University, teaches Chinese to Ethiopian tourism professionals at Addis Ababa University in Ethiopia, Dec. 2, 2024. 
by Xinhua writers Habtamu Worku, Liu Fangqiang
ADDIS ABABA, Dec. 8 (Xinhua) -- Tsegaye Gebremedhin, a seasoned tour guide, is among 60 Ethiopian tourism professionals embracing the transformative power of language as Ethiopia, a nation rich in cultural heritage and natural beauty, sets its sight on capitalizing on the burgeoning Chinese outbound tourism market.
As the East African country seeks to strengthen its people-to-people, economic, and diplomatic ties with China, as part of a national strategic focus to enhance tourism sector's contribution to its economic growth, Ethiopian tour guides like Gebremedhin recognize that mastering the Chinese language is a crucial tool to augment their professional skills and attract Chinese tourists.
With 11 years of experience as a tour guide, Gebremedhin has seen a significant rise in the number of Chinese visitors to Ethiopia. He stresses the importance of Ethiopian guides learning Chinese to fully capitalize on the growing influx of Chinese tourists and the promising prospects ahead.
"Back in the days, we used to mostly see Chinese nationals engaged in investment and construction sectors. However, these days, when we go to the airport to welcome our guests, a significant number of the travelers are Chinese," Gebremedhin said.
From his observations, Chinese tourists are increasingly seeking authentic experiences in Ethiopia, eager to explore the country's diverse landscapes, wildlife, and cultural heritage. However, Gebremedhin notes that the language barrier has become a major challenge, affecting the overall experience for Chinese tourists.
Recognizing this challenge and the growing demand for language skills, Gebremedhin has taken proactive steps to learn Chinese. Driven by both personal ambition and the professional opportunities it offers, he has been studying the language for over six months.
"By speaking their language and guiding them in their mother tongue, we can significantly enhance the experience of Chinese travelers here in Ethiopia," he said.
Gebremedhin is one of 60 Ethiopian tour guides currently learning Chinese as part of an initiative designed to provide basic language proficiency in three weeks. The program, launched by the Ethiopian Ministry of Tourism in collaboration with the Ethiopian Tourist Guides Professional Association (ETGPA) and the Chinese Embassy in Ethiopia, aims to equip Ethiopia's tourism and hospitality professionals with essential language skills.
Ethiopia, a country with a rich cultural heritage, historical significance, and remarkable biodiversity, boasts several UNESCO World Heritage sites. These include the Melka Kunture and Balchit archaeological sites, the Bale and Simien mountains national parks, the obelisks of Aksum, and the rock-hewn churches of Lalibela, among others. The country is also celebrated as the birthplace of coffee and has a vibrant arts and crafts scene, making it an increasingly attractive destination for international tourists, including those from China.
Given Ethiopia's strong socioeconomic and interpersonal ties with China, the language training program, offered by the Confucius Institute at Addis Ababa University, is expected to help Ethiopia tap into the rapidly expanding Chinese outbound tourism market.
"Our classes are specifically designed for tourism professionals, which include many topics and words related to tourism and Ethiopia's famous tourist attractions such as the Ethiopian coffee ceremony and the National Museum of Ethiopia," said Song Ruirong, a Chinese teacher of the Confucius Institute.
To reinforce learning, Song compiles a list of Chinese words students have asked about in classes and hands out the list to students to help them memorize these terms.
"They have asked for many Chinese words and phrases related to Ethiopia's tourism, such as volcano, camping, and wild-dog. They are not in our textbook, but I was able to write them down and include them in our word-list," Song said.
One week into the training, most students are already comfortable using basic Chinese, simulating scenarios such as shopping, booking hotels, and introducing themselves.
In addition to language instruction, students also participate in Baduanjin, a traditional Chinese aerobic exercise, each morning for half an hour before classes. "It's a great warm-up activity that leads us to the mood of Chinese study," Gebremedhin said.
Wutsifte Girma, another experienced tour guide, emphasizes that intercultural communication is not just a skill but a gateway to deeper connections. She points out that the language barrier remains a significant challenge for her and her colleagues, especially with the rapid increase in Chinese visitors to Ethiopia, and overcoming this barrier is essential for fostering better interactions and understanding between tour guides and tourists.
"Since the Chinese and Ethiopian people are getting along more than ever, I believe it is beneficial to learn Mandarin. I am confident that there will be an increasing number of Chinese travelers coming to Ethiopia, leading to enhanced mutual understanding, as both our countries are historically and culturally rich," said Girma.
Her optimism reflects a broader trend where language learning fosters mutual appreciation and cultural exchange.
Ethiopian Minister of Tourism Selamawit Kassa underscored the nation's aspiration to become the preferred destination for Chinese tourists, acknowledging the critical importance of effective communication to help achieve the target.
"Today, China has one of the largest outbound tourism globally. Ethiopia and China have a longstanding relationship that includes diplomatic, economic, and strategic ties. Both countries have long years of civilizations," Kassa said.
The Ethiopian tourism minister said the Chinese language training for Ethiopian tour guides "is an excellent start to assist our ministry to achieve its plan of making the Chinese market a core market."
Highlighting the tourism sector's "tremendous contribution" to the Ethiopian economy, serving as a source of foreign exchange, employment, and ensuring sustainable development, she added that Chinese businesses are also playing a significant role in engaging in Ethiopia's tourism sector to meet the needs of Chinese tourists.
"There are a good number of Chinese hotels, restaurants, and other travel related businesses in Ethiopia. Chinese are contributing a lot to the tourism investment," she said.
Endy Assefa, president of ETGPA, underscored the importance of equipping tour guides with essential Chinese language skills, emphasizing that they are the storytellers and first points of contact for visitors, shaping their perceptions about the country and its people.
As Sino-Ethiopian people-to-people ties continue to flourish, the commitment of Ethiopian tour guides to mastering the Chinese language is set to pave the way for a more connected and vibrant tourism experience. This effort will ultimately enable Ethiopia to tap into the burgeoning economic potential of Chinese outbound tourists.
"This training is a symbol of our commitment to welcoming Chinese tourists with open arms and ensuring they feel at home in Ethiopia. China is more than a market. It is a gateway to the future," Assefa said. "By learning the Chinese language, we are not just acquiring a skill. We are building bridges for cultural exchange, understanding, and growth." ■
Song Ruirong, a Chinese teacher of the Confucius Institute at Addis Ababa University, teaches Chinese to Ethiopian tourism professionals at Addis Ababa University in Ethiopia, Dec. 2, 2024. (Xinhua/Liu Fangqiang)