Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-06-18 21:06:00
by Burak Akinci
ANKARA, June 18 (Xinhua) -- Türkiye's heightened interest in BRICS stems from its desire to be part of the growing economic potential of the bloc, which offers new opportunities for cooperation and development, analysts said.
During an official visit to China in early June, Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan expressed his country's pursuit of new opportunities for cooperation with different partners in platforms like BRICS. Fidant also attended the bloc's foreign ministers meeting in the Russian city of Nizhny Novgorod on June 10-11.
Experts said that it is uncertain whether Türkiye will join the bloc at the moment, but as the economic bloc continues to grow, Türkiye will want to benefit from the development opportunities it provides.
"BRICS is likely to dominate the global economy in the coming decades, and Türkiye wants to be a part of the vast opportunities that the bloc presents in a multipolar world," Ali Oguz Dirioz, an associate professor of international relations at Ankara's TOBB University of Economics and Technology, told Xinhua.
He said that the participation of middle powers like Türkiye could enhance BRICS's importance, as these nations seek a multipolar world order not dominated by superpowers.
The global economy is increasingly leaning towards the South Pacific region, where growth is significantly higher. Therefore, Türkiye cannot be indifferent to these developments, Dirioz added.
Meanwhile, he emphasized that "any potential decision (to join BRICS) would not be made in opposition to Europe, as Türkiye is a longstanding member of NATO and European institutions."
On July 3-4, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan plans to attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) summit in Astana, Kazakhstan. As an observer state, Türkiye has shown interest in becoming a member of the group in the past decade, though this aspiration has raised eyebrows in Western capitals.
Erdogan is also expected to travel to Washington on July 9-11 to join a NATO summit celebrating the military alliance's 75th anniversary.
Serkan Demirtas, an Ankara-based foreign policy analyst and journalist, said the Turkish leader's itinerary demonstrates Türkiye's aspiration for multilateral influence.
He told Xinhua that Ankara aims to strengthen ties with Asia and seeks to participate in multilateral arrangements.
"Türkiye's interest in BRICS is part of an economy-oriented diplomacy that does not want to miss out on the growing economic power of Asia in particular," noted Demirtas.
In Demirtas's opinion, Ankara does not view BRICS as an alternative to the European Union, its primary economic partner. However, Türkiye's frustration with a stalled accession process with the European bloc prompts it to explore different options and alternative platforms.
For other experts, Türkiye's good relations with both Russia and Ukraine could also play a catalyst role in its aspiration to move closer to BRICS.
"The possible membership of Türkiye, which has proven itself as a unique mediator in the Ukraine crisis and as a bridge between the West and East, would also contribute to BRICS," political commentator Melih Altinok, recently said in a column in Daily Sabah.
"A rapprochement between Türkiye and BRICS will benefit both sides," he added. ■