Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2024-12-29 22:22:18
BEIJING, Dec. 29 (Xinhua) -- As 2024 draws to a close, Xinhua News Agency has curated a selection of top 10 news stories that defined the year in China. Join us as we recap the standout moments of 2024.
1. CPC launches discipline education campaign to ensure strict Party self-governance
In April, the General Office of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee issued a circular to launch a Party-wide campaign on CPC discipline education. Running from April to July, the campaign is the first of its kind in Party history that centers around discipline education.
Through the study of the newly revised Party regulations on disciplinary action and other content, the campaign aimed to guide Party members and officials to study and abide by discipline so as to create a strong driving force and synergy for advancing Chinese modernization.
2. Breakthroughs made in high-tech fields of strategic significance and key projects
The Shenzhou-18 and the Shenzhou-19 manned spaceships were launched in April and October respectively. In December, the Shenzhou 19 crew broke the record for the longest single extravehicular activity by Chinese astronauts.
On June 25, the Chang'e-6 lunar probe wrapped up a 53-day mission, bringing back samples collected from the moon's far side for the first time in human history.
On Nov. 1, China's 41st Antarctic expedition team set sail to build the supporting infrastructure for the Qinling Station in Antarctica and conduct international research and logistics cooperation.
As of Nov. 26, China's Five-hundred-meter Aperture Spherical Radio Telescope had identified more than 1,000 new pulsars, outnumbering those identified by all foreign telescopes combined.
3. Mainland resolutely deters "Taiwan independence" separatist forces
In response to Taiwan leader Lai Ching-te's pursuit of "Taiwan independence" and his attempts to seek it through foreign backing and military means, the mainland side has firmly declared its intolerance of any form of separatism.
From May 23 to 24, the Eastern Theater Command of the Chinese People's Liberation Army conducted Joint Sword-2024A military drills around the island of Taiwan, involving the army, navy, air force and rocket force.
On Oct. 14, the Eastern Theater Command conducted Joint Sword-2024B drills in the Taiwan Strait and to the north, south and east of the island of Taiwan.
These exercises served as a decisive punishment for Lai's provocations, a strong warning for separatist forces, and a stern message for external entities that aid or abet the pursuit of "Taiwan independence" and interfere in China's internal affairs.
4. Key CPC plenum rolls out further comprehensive reform measures
The third plenary session of the 20th CPC Central Committee was held in Beijing from July 15 to 18. The key policy meeting adopted a resolution on further deepening reform comprehensively to advance Chinese modernization.
Focusing on advancing Chinese modernization and implementing the strategic plans made by the CPC's 20th National Congress, the resolution clarifies the goal of basically achieving socialist modernization by 2035, outlines China's key reform tasks for the next five years and proposes over 300 major reform initiatives.
The resolution serves as a declaration of objectives and an overall roadmap for further deepening reform comprehensively on the new journey in the new era.
5. Head-of-state diplomacy ushers in new chapter, high-standard opening-up advances
Over the past year, Chinese President Xi Jinping has engaged in intensive head-of-state diplomacy both at home and abroad. He attended major events such as the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation -- the largest China-hosted diplomatic event in recent years, and the Conference Marking the 70th Anniversary of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence.
Xi made four overseas visits in 2024 -- to Europe, to Central Asia, for the BRICS Summit, and to Latin America. He also participated in a series of multilateral summits.
China's major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics has fostered a favorable external environment for Chinese modernization.
Meanwhile, high-standard opening-up has advanced steadily, and the high-quality Belt and Road cooperation has achieved new progress. Events such as the China International Import Expo and the China International Supply Chain Expo have been held in succession, and policies optimizing foreign entry into China have been widely welcomed.
China is advancing the building of a community with a shared future for humanity, promoting an equitable and orderly multipolar world and inclusive economic globalization that is beneficial for all. By implementing the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative, China contributes its solutions to addressing global challenges.
6. Retirement age reform introduced to better utilize human resources
On Sept. 13, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress approved a decision on gradually raising the statutory retirement age. Starting Jan. 1, 2025, China will implement a 15-year phased plan to incrementally increase the retirement age to 63 for male employees and to 55 or 58 for female employees.
This marks the first adjustment to the statutory retirement age in over 70 years and represents a major reform aimed at proactively addressing population aging and promoting the full utilization of human resources.
7. Founding anniversaries of NPC, CPPCC highlight China's whole-process people's democracy
This year marked the 70th founding anniversary of the National People's Congress (NPC) and the 75th founding anniversary of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC).
Speaking at a meeting celebrating the NPC founding anniversary on Sept. 14, Xi Jinping, general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, emphasized continuous efforts to uphold, improve and run the system of people's congresses, China's fundamental political system, to good effect.
At a meeting celebrating the founding anniversary of the CPPCC on Sept. 20, Xi delivered a speech highlighting the high-quality development of the CPPCC's cause on its new journey in the new era.
Staying firmly on the path of socialist political advancement with Chinese characteristics, China has further strengthened its confidence in the path, theory, system and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Continuous efforts have been made to develop the country's whole-process people's democracy.
8. Decisive deployment of a package of incremental policies to boost economic recovery
On Sept. 26, the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee held a meeting to analyze and study the current economic situation, announcing the decisive deployment of a package of incremental policies.
The Chinese economy has posted a generally stable performance this year while facing intensified external pressures and increasing domestic challenges. Over the past year, China has enhanced counter-cyclical adjustments through fiscal and monetary policies, stabilized the real estate market, boosted the capital market, and assisted enterprises in overcoming difficulties.
The country's total grain output surpassed 700 billion kilograms for the first time this year, and people's well-being has been improved. Risks in key areas have been addressed in an orderly and effective manner.
China's economic, technological and comprehensive national strengths have continued to grow, and this year's main economic and social development goals and tasks have been accomplished.
9. Celebration of the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China (PRC)
Oct. 1 marked the 75th anniversary of the founding of the PRC, with a series of solemn events held for it.
On Sept. 29, China held a ceremony to confer national medals and national honorary titles. On Sept. 30, China's Martyrs' Day, a ceremony was held in central Beijing to present flower baskets to fallen heroes. Later on the day, a grand reception to celebrate the 75th founding anniversary of the PRC was held at the Great Hall of the People.
With pride and joy, the country's over 1.4 billion people celebrated the anniversary together. Over the past 75 years since the founding of the PRC, the CPC has united people of all ethnic groups to work hard and create the twin miracles of rapid economic growth and long-term social stability. China has undergone tremendous changes, and is now advancing toward the great national rejuvenation.
10. Celebration of the 25th anniversary of Macao's return to the motherland
Dec. 20 marked the 25th anniversary of Macao's return to the motherland. A meeting to celebrate the anniversary and the inaugural ceremony of the sixth-term government of the Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR) was held on the day. President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the CPC Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, attended the meeting and delivered an important speech.
Over the past 25 years since Macao's return, enormous success has been achieved in advancing the cause of "one country, two systems" with distinctive Macao features. Macao has undergone a fundamental transformation and its international standing has risen significantly.
The great achievements of Macao since its return to the motherland have proven that the "one country, two systems," with its distinctive institutional strengths and strong vitality, is a good system that sustains the long-term prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and Macao.
It is also a good system that facilitates endeavors to build China into a great country and achieve national rejuvenation, and a good system for ensuring peaceful coexistence and mutual benefit between different social systems, which must be upheld in the long run.  ■