Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-05 09:56:45
by Erik Solheim
This year, we welcomed a truly "intangible heritage Spring Festival," as it marks the first since its inclusion in UNESCO's Intangible Cultural Heritage list. Unlike the Great Wall that can be physically visited, the Spring Festival encompasses a cluster of social practices, showcasing the nation's unparalleled cultural richness and unwavering commitment to heritage preservation.
As a long-time friend of China, I have had the privilege of witnessing the splendor of the Spring Festival many times. What always amazes me is its extraordinary vitality -- how this tradition has endured the tides of time and remains deeply woven into the hearts of countless generations.
The Spring Festival dates back to over 3,000 years ago, a time when ancient Chinese civilizations first developed a sense of time's cyclical rhythm. During the Xia Dynasty, the creation of the "Xia Calendar," known as the Chinese Lunar Calendar today, was a groundbreaking achievement. It guided agricultural cycles and marked seasonal changes, illustrating an early understanding of the intricate connection between humans and nature.
The custom of celebrating the New Year on the first day of the Chinese Lunar Calendar was formally established during the Han Dynasty by Emperor Wu of Han, one of the greatest emperors.
Used to be called "Yuandan (New Year's Day)" in ancient times, the Chinese New Year was designated as an official public holiday in the Tang Dynasty. The imperial courts held grand ceremonies, while families celebrated by cleaning homes, worshipping their ancestors and exchanging greetings with loved ones.
Over the two millennia following the Han Dynasty, welcoming the New Year in the first month had not been changed until 1911, when the last feudal dynasty in China was toppled. Since then, China has introduced the Gregorian calendar, and Jan. 1 instead has become the New Year's Day. To distinguish the Chinese Lunar New Year, it has been later renamed as the Spring Festival, while remaining as a cornerstone of Chinese identity.
In this sense, the Spring Festival serves as a living symbol of national identity and collective emotional bonds, most vividly demonstrated by Chunyun -- the annual migration of hundreds of millions returning to their hometowns to get reunion with family, creating the largest human movement on the planet.
Getting reunion with family lies at the heart of the whole festival, showcasing the family value of the Chinese culture. In the past decades, China's rapid economic growth and urbanization have drawn the younger generation to cities in search of better opportunities and higher quality of life. But during the Spring Festival, they rush back to their family in hometowns, now often with convenient high-speed rail.
The holiday also creates "way stations" in the bustling journey of life. People find emotional nourishment in the warmth of reunions, the dazzling fireworks and heartfelt New Year greetings, reconnecting with the emotions and memories that tie to family and hometowns, and anchoring spirits in a place of belonging.
China's Hehe culture represented in the Spring Festival celebrations, meaning harmony and unity, deeply resonates with me. As I have always believed, we need greater harmony among individuals, stronger bonds within families, and broader unity within societies. A world where love and kindness flourish at the individual level will naturally inspire greater harmony between nations, paving the way for a more peaceful and compassionate global community.
Now, as we look ahead to 2025, the uncertainties of the future weigh heavily. The United States is poised to withdraw again from the World Health Organization and the Paris climate accord, reigniting a path of retreat from global leadership. The specter of trade wars looms large, raising questions about where this era of unpredictability will lead the world. Will these challenges deepen divides, or could they inspire a renewed commitment to collaboration and shared progress?
The answers, as always, rest in how we choose to respond. The Spring Festival marks the turning point from the old to the new -- a time to bid farewell to the past and embrace the future. It also stands as a symbol of renewed hope -- a hope that is now resonating across the globe.
From my home in Norway, I extend my warmest and most heartfelt New Year wishes to all friends celebrating the Spring Festival. As we step into this new chapter, may the spirit of the Spring Festival inspire hope, connection and a shared journey toward a brighter and more harmonious future.
Happy Spring Festival! Enditem
Editor's note: Erik Solheim is president of the Green Belt and Road Institute, former UN Under-Secretary-General, and former executive director of the United Nations Environment Programme.
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the positions of Xinhua News Agency.