Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-10 22:06:15
HARBIN, Feb. 10 (Xinhua) -- While South Korea, China, and Kazakhstan claimed all nine short track speed skating golds at the Harbin Asian Winter Games, many skaters from warmer countries were also in the spotlight by making their debuts on the international stage.
Thanutchaya Chatthaisong of Thailand competed in four short track speed skating events despite her country's lack of natural ice and snow.
"This is our first Asian Winter Games, and I'm proud of our teamwork and progress," said the 18-year-old, who reached final B in two events. "Training in Thailand with just one shared rink was tough, and some teammates cried during practice, but we are trying to qualify for the Winter Olympics."
Chatthaisong has spent nearly ten years skating and witnessed the growth of the sport in Thailand, noting that veteran Thai skaters have set the stage for younger generations to compete in high-level events.
"More and more people in Thailand are backing us now. We're going through a tough but positive change, and things are getting better," she added.
17-year-old Peter Groseclose, the Philippines' only short track speed skater at the Harbin Games, reveal similar feelings to Chatthaisong.
Groseclose got used to training on public rinks in local shopping malls, and considered his semifinal appearance at the Games as "a confidence boost."
"The atmosphere here surpasses some World Cup events. China's passion for short track is incredible. The ice architecture and vibrant culture are unforgettable in Harbin," he said.
In China, enthusiasm for winter sports in many subtropical and tropical areas was also hugely boosted by the successful host of Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics.
When Sidney K Chu raced at Beijing 2022, he was the sole short track speed skater representing Hong Kong (China), but the squad in the event expanded to six at the Harbin Games, who even rushed to the men's 1,500 final B and men's 5,000m relay final B.
"When I picked up the sport in Hong Kong, I had only 20 teammates. Now the number has hit 200. New rinks and coaching programs have been emerging in recent years," Chu, 25, noted.
"I was once jealous of people skating in northeast China and their comprehensive training system, but now we have more and more rinks and established our own training system," said Chu, eyeing a bigger goal. "I'm looking forward to the day when Hong Kong skaters stand on the podium in the international competitions." ■