Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-07 00:17:00
by Xinhua writers Zeng Yan, Liu Bowei
BEIJING, Jan. 6 (Xinhua) -- As the new year unfolds, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi has commenced his first overseas visit of 2025 with a tour of Africa, continuing a diplomatic tradition that marks its 35th year.
The trip underscores China's enduring commitment to strengthening cooperation with Africa and bolstering solidarity among nations of the Global South.
The visit builds on the foundation laid at the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) last year, where Chinese President Xi Jinping proposed that bilateral relations between China and all African countries having diplomatic ties with China be elevated to the level of strategic relations.
Xi also proposed that the overall characterization of China-Africa relations be elevated to an all-weather China-Africa community with a shared future for the new era.
The move marked a milestone in China-Africa ties, highlighting China's firm determination to continuously elevate China-Africa cooperation to new levels.
Under the principles of sincerity, real results, amity and good faith, cooperation projects between China and Africa have significantly contributed to the continent's sustainable development.
Over the last quarter-century, Chinese companies have helped African countries build or upgrade more than 10,000 km of railways, nearly 100,000 km of highways, 1,000 bridges, 100 ports and 66,000 km of power transmission and distribution lines, all of which have created arteries of connectivity across the African continent.
Beyond infrastructure, China is also working with Africa to drive the continent's green transition through investments in hydropower, windpower and solar energy, and address key challenges in agricultural technology and food security.
Over the past decade, China has set up 24 agricultural technology demonstration centers in Africa and popularized more than 300 advanced agricultural technologies, which have increased local crop yields by an average of 30 to 60 percent, benefiting more than 1 million farmers in African countries.
These initiatives have not only boosted Africa's infrastructure, technology and industrial growth, but also enhanced local communities' access to education, healthcare and energy, supporting Africa's efforts in such critical areas as poverty reduction, climate change response and economic diversification.
As China strengthens its cooperation with African nations, the focus remains on creating long-term, win-win outcomes that align with the development goals of both sides. This enduring commitment is poised to drive further progress and cooperation in the years ahead.
In a world grappling with political and economic instability, the unity of the Global South has emerged as a cornerstone for fostering stability and promoting shared development. Within this context, China-Africa cooperation extends beyond bilateral ties, offering a model for partnerships between developing nations.
As major members in the Global South, China and Africa have joined forces to advance major development initiatives, aligning China's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) with the African Continental Free Trade Area. This cooperation has created unprecedented opportunities for Global South nations to better integrate into global value chains, unlocking pathways for industrialization, job creation and infrastructure development.
The cooperation between China and Africa extends beyond economic matters. The two sides have long shared a vision of promoting a more equitable and inclusive global governance system, one that amplifies the voices of Global South nations on the international stage.
This shared goal has been reflected in numerous joint efforts aimed at enhancing the representation and influence of developing nations in key global institutions.
China was the first country to explicitly express its support for the African Union's membership of the G20. By backing Africa's entry into the G20, China not only boosts Africa's global stature but also strengthens the voice of the Global South on critical issues such as climate change, global health, poverty reduction and trade reform.
In a world marred by power politics and hegemony, the significance of the China-Africa partnership becomes even clearer. It stands as a beacon of equality, common development and shared prosperity.
This partnership is by no means transactional; it embodies a vision for a more just and equitable global order. Together, China and Africa are better positioned to advocate for international fairness, true multilateralism and the interests of the Global South. ■