Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-20 07:25:15
Chinese artists perform during a temple fair celebrating the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year in Budapest, Hungary, on Jan. 18, 2025. (Xinhua/Chen Hao)
By Geza Molnar, Chen Hao, Wang Qibing
BUDAPEST, Jan. 19 (Xinhua) -- Budapest's Chinatown was bursting with life Saturday despite the winter chill as vibrant colors, music and aroma of traditional Chinese delicacies filled the streets during a two-day Spring Festival celebration.
The "Happy Chinese New Year" Temple Fair also brought together thousands of visitors, performers, artisans, and dignitaries to welcome the upcoming Chinese lunar new year, or the Year of the Snake, which falls on Jan. 29.
This is the first celebration since UNESCO inscribed "Spring Festival, social practices of the Chinese people in celebration of the traditional new year" on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.
The fair featured dazzling performances, including lion and dragon dances, Peking Opera, the Monkey King's kung fu demonstration and folk dances that left audiences in awe. Three cultural delegations from China brought eight premiering programs to Hungary.
Visitors also had the rare opportunity to don 35 newly designed Hanfu outfits for free cosplay, blending cultural education with an element of fun.
From making wishes at the wishing tree to crafting and savoring dumplings, creating lanterns, designing kites, practicing Chinese calligraphy, and enjoying traditional tea ceremonies, visitors were fully immersed in Chinese culture and traditions.
"It's amazing to see the performances and learn about traditions that are so different yet so universal," said Kata Szabo, who watched a lion dance with her six-year-old daughter.
"We want our daughter to experience and appreciate diverse cultures," she added.
First-time visitor Hajnalka Meszaros, who traveled from Oroshaza, was mesmerized by the experience. "The dances were stunning, and I even plan to explore the calligraphy workshops later," she shared.
Meanwhile, Beatrix Gyorfi Toth, who traveled from Dunavecse, experienced everything from the calligraphy sessions to the dragon dances. A long-time admirer of Chinese culture, Toth appreciated how the festival brought an authentic taste of China to Hungary.
Istvan Jakab, deputy speaker of the Hungarian parliament, highlighted the deeper significance of the Year of the Snake during his opening remarks Saturday. He emphasized wisdom, transformation, and hope as guiding themes, while celebrating the thriving friendship between China and Hungary and confirming the crucial role cultural exchanges play in this regard.
Chinese Ambassador Gong Tao also said "The Chinese New Year represents harmony between humans and nature.... For over a decade, such events have helped Hungarians discover and appreciate Chinese traditions."
"May the Year of the Snake bring wisdom, good fortune, and stronger bonds between China and Hungary," Gong note. ■
Two girls showcase their names written in Chinese calligraphy during a temple fair celebrating the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year in Budapest, Hungary, on Jan. 18, 2025. (Xinhua/Chen Hao)
People watch a lion dance during a temple fair celebrating the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year in Budapest, Hungary, on Jan. 18, 2025. (Xinhua/Chen Hao)
People watch a performance during a temple fair celebrating the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year in Budapest, Hungary, on Jan. 18, 2025. (Xinhua/Chen Hao)
People watch a demonstration of sugar figure art during a temple fair celebrating the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year in Budapest, Hungary, on Jan. 18, 2025. (Xinhua/Chen Hao)