Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-10 19:28:32
BERLIN, Feb. 10 (Xinhua) -- Europe should take a more proactive role in global trade and strengthen economic ties with China to safeguard its interests, rather than passively react to U.S. policies, said a German trade group leader in an interview with Xinhua.
Michael Schumann, chairman of the German Federal Association for Economic Development and Foreign Trade, urged Europe to adopt an independent approach to its economic interests and resist passively accepting the fallout of U.S. policy decisions.
Schumann emphasized the need for Europe to enhance economic cooperation with China to uphold the openness and stability of the global trade system.
Noting that the new U.S. measures were in line with U.S. President Donald Trump's previous trade policies and were not surprising, he stressed that tariffs were not an effective solution to trade imbalances.
Schumann warned that Europe could not afford to be a passive observer of U.S. trade policies. He called on the European Union (EU) to strengthen trade and investment ties with China, arguing that closer economic cooperation would enhance Europe's global competitiveness.
Germany is also grappling with domestic political and economic uncertainty. Schumann noted that the country's upcoming federal election in late February could bring significant political shifts.
"The German economy is under immense pressure. We need policies based on national interests rather than ideological considerations," he said. "Good relations with China are in Germany's interests."
Schumann stressed that stronger trade relations with China will not only support Germany's economic recovery but also align with its long-term strategy in the global market.
With changing geopolitical dynamics, Europe should maintain an open, fair and inclusive trade system, rather than follow the United States toward protectionism, Schumann said.
"Trump's return is reshaping global geopolitics. Europe must carefully weigh its options and act in its own interests. Strengthening EU-China relations is clearly part of that strategy," he said.
Schumann also called on European leaders to take a more active role in shaping global trade policies.
"Germany has long supported multilateralism," Schumann said, adding protectionism may offer short-term benefits, but threatens global economic stability and growth in the long run.
The year 2025 marks the 50th anniversary of the diplomatic relations between China and the EU. Schumann said that the long history of cooperation has provided a strong foundation for future engagement.
"If we look at those five decades, we can take confidence and should motivate ourselves to come back to constructive engagement with China," he said. ■