Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-06 22:12:15
OTTAWA, Jan. 6 (Xinhua) -- Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is expected to announce as early as Monday his resignation as leader of the ruling Liberal Party, local media reported.
Trudeau has been the leader of the Liberal Party since 2013, and has been serving as the prime minister for more than nine years. What's behind his likely resignation and what could happen next?
WHAT HAPPENED?
Trudeau is facing a revolt within his caucus and dismal public opinion polls, which indicate that his party is likely to be swept from power by Pierre Poilievre's Conservatives in an election, The Globe and Mail cited sources to report on Sunday.
Sources told the Canadian daily that they did not know definitely when Trudeau would announce his plans to leave but said they expect it would happen before a key national caucus meeting of Liberal legislators on Wednesday.
Media reported that Trudeau is scheduled to participate virtually in a cabinet committee meeting on Canada-U.S. relations on Monday, citing the prime minister's regularly published schedule.
In recent days, more than 50 Liberal parliamentarians have publicly urged Trudeau to leave his post, as the party has been facing gloomy polls.
In addition to the ruling party, New Democratic Party leader Jagmeet Singh has pulled his support for the minority Liberal government. In an open letter on social media, Singh said his party will bring forward a motion of non-confidence to bring down the Trudeau government in the next sitting of the House of Commons which is set to begin on Jan. 27.
WHAT TRIGGERED CALL FOR HIS RESIGNATION?
The Liberals have been under growing pressure as polls show that they are expected to suffer a landslide defeat to the official opposition Conservatives in the next federal vote to be held by late October.
Media said the gloomy polls reflect voter fatigue as well as the public's anger over Canada's soaring prices and a housing crisis.
Meanwhile, the government faces further pressure from the incoming U.S. administration. U.S. President-elect Donald Trump threatened 25-percent tariffs on all Canadian and Mexican imports unless both countries take measures on irregular migration and drug trafficking.
Trudeau attempted to demote then Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland, who was at odds with him on spending and the path forward, leading to Freeland's resignation in mid-December.
Freeland, one of Trudeau's closest cabinet allies, called for pushing back against "America First" economic nationalism in a post on social media.
After she quit, the Canadian government pledged 1.3 billion Canadian dollars (910 million U.S. dollars) to bolster border security, even as its deficit swelled nearly 50 percent beyond target.
Trudeau also reshuffled his cabinet, adding eight new ministers and changing four ministers' roles. The new cabinet will deliver on what matters most to Canadians, which includes making life more affordable and growing the economy, said Trudeau.
In the face of Canadians' frustration with high housing costs and soaring prices, the government has taken new spending measures to protect consumers and businesses, racking up record budget deficits.
WHAT'S NEXT?
Sources told The Globe and Mail that it remains unclear whether Trudeau will resign immediately, or stay on as prime minister until a new leader is selected so he can deal with the incoming U.S. administration.
The ruling party's national executive, which decides on leadership issues, is expected to meet later this week, the daily said.
According to the report, the party has two options after Trudeau's likely resignation. One is to appoint an interim leader on the recommendation of the national caucus. The other is to hold a shortened leadership contest which requires proroguing the parliament, which is not guaranteed, according to constitutional experts.
Local media said Trudeau has discussed with Finance Minister Dominic LeBlanc whether he would be willing to step in as interim leader and prime minister. But the plan would be unworkable if LeBlanc plans to run for the leadership, since tradition dictates that the interim leader does not run as a party head candidate. ■