Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-09 21:54:16
by sportswriters He Leijing, Wang Qinou and Ma Kai
HARBIN, Feb. 9 (Xinhua) -- Georges Wakim, clad in a helmet and goggles, his skis firmly planted in the snow, lingered halfway up the slope long after his event had concluded on Sunday.
His name may not have been among the top ranked, but his presence at the 9th Asian Winter Games in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, was a historic moment for Lebanon.
Sunday's ski mountaineering event saw athletes from the host nation dominate both men's and women's sprint races. Wakim, the first-ever Lebanese to compete in ski mountaineering at an Asian Winter Games, finished 13th in the men's qualifiers, failing to advance further.
"My challenge was to keep my country in the semifinals, but unfortunately, I didn't qualify," Wakim said, his tone tinged with regret.
"Maybe in 2029, at the next Asian Winter Games, I'll have a better chance."
Lebanon, where winter sports are still in their infancy, has sent its largest-ever Asian Winter Games delegation to Harbin, comprising 16 athletes across five snow sports disciplines.
"I'm so far the first Lebanese athlete to compete in the sprint event of ski mountaineering, and that's why I'm here," Wakim said.
Wakim is a graphic designer by profession, a field that fuels his artistic passions. His journey into ski mountaineering began in 2012, and he was immediately drawn to its unique blend of nature and physical challenge.
"I enjoy being alone in the mountains, between the snow and the sky. I love the harmony of white and blue," he explained, describing how the striking beauty of the scene - white snow against blue skies - captivated him and ignited his passion for the sport.
Ski mountaineering, a combination of Alpine skiing and mountain climbing, demands not only endurance and technical climbing skills but also expert skiing ability. The event will feature on the Winter Olympic program for the first time at Milan-Cortina 2026.
In his pursuit of athletic excellence, Wakim constantly strives to balance his job and training regimen. "I train before 9am and then again after 5pm," he said. "It's challenging to maintain that balance between work and skiing."
Unlike athletes from traditional winter sports nations, many Asian competitors, including Wakim, lack the luxury of frequent international training. Instead, Wakim remains steadfast in his hope for the elevation of his country's skiing standard.
"The Harbin Asian Winter Games has been fantastic," Wakim said. "I hope more athletes from Asian countries and regions will participate in continental training camps to exchange knowledge, collaborate, and improve together."
"We have the Asian Winter Games. We can also have the Asian Championships, or even training camps on a continental level," the Lebanese added.
Wakim's ultimate dream is to compete in the Winter Olympics. "It's so hard now," he admitted. "But maybe I'll get the chance. Maybe I'll qualify for the 2030 Winter Olympics."
"We have four months of snow in Lebanon, so I must make the most of those months to improve. My goal is to achieve a strong result and elevate Lebanon's presence in winter sports," Wakim said. "I want to show the world that in Lebanon, we train every day and we can compete in winter sports."
"I want to show everyone that Lebanon has snow," Wakim added, his eyes glinting with resolve. ■