Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-13 07:00:00
by Xinhua writer Yang Shilong
NEW YORK, Feb. 12 (Xinhua) -- Chinese-American philanthropist Angela Chen was honored on Tuesday at the New York Philharmonic's (NY Phil) annual Lunar New Year concert and gala for her pivotal role in establishing the event over a decade ago.
"Angela has been the key player in establishing the first Lunar New Year Gala of the New York Philharmonic in 2012. She co-founded this annual tradition (with Chinese conductor Yu Long)," said Oscar Tang, co-chairman of the Philharmonic board, at the honoring ceremony Tuesday evening.
"She's been a trailblazer in business, the arts, and international commerce, and her impact on fostering American and Chinese business relations is matched only by her impact on philanthropy. She has built her extraordinary career in philanthropic legacy on her belief that music unifies communities and builds connections," Tang said.
NY Phil President and CEO Matias Tarnopolsky also offered high praise for Chen, describing her as a "shining example" of harnessing the power of music to strengthen connections and bring people together across cultures.
In accepting the honor, Chen, a longtime NY Phil board member and co-chair of the NY Phil International Advisory Board, reflected on the collective efforts that have made the Lunar New Year concert a success.
"This honor tonight is not really for me," Chen said. "It's for our entire community that has supported this cultural exchange. It's for everyone who has helped transform these concerts into moments of understanding between people and cultures."
Leveraging her business acumen, Chen has engaged local and international entrepreneurs to support the orchestra, ensuring that the Lunar New Year concert remains a cornerstone of the Philharmonic's annual calendar.
"Concerts are a universal platform that American audiences can easily connect with, naturally sparking their curiosity to learn more about Chinese traditions," she told Xinhua.
Beyond musical performances, Chen and her team has incorporated elements of Chinese heritage into the event, including lion and dragon dances as well as zodiac-themed decorations.
"The Lunar New Year embodies values of family reunion, respect for elders, and mutual affection," said Chen. "Through this concert, we hope to help more Americans understand the profound values of Chinese culture."
She also emphasized the importance of showcasing the rich diversity of Chinese music.
"We don't just present mainstream Chinese compositions. We also highlight music from ethnic minorities to celebrate China's diversity and inclusiveness," she said. "Sharing Chinese culture helps more people understand China and fosters deeper connections between China and the U.S."
Chen noted the growing participation of young Chinese musicians in the two countries' cultural exchanges and expressed optimism about the Philharmonic's future engagements with China.
"The New York Philharmonic will actively visit China more often to learn about Chinese culture and further cultural exchanges between our two nations," she said.
As the first Chinese-American to receive this distinction from the NY Phil, Chen expressed her hope that it will inspire the younger generation to continue fostering cultural dialogue.
"For 14 years, I've spent Lunar New Year away from my family," said Chen, who is originally from Shanghai. "But I know this work matters deeply in today's complex world. Music bridges are more important than ever."
According to Chen, one of the most memorable performances in the history of the NY Phil's Lunar New Year concerts was the 2018 presentation of Andy Akiho's experimental concerto, Ricochet: Concerto for Ping-Pong, Violin, Percussion, and Orchestra.
In a bold and unconventional display, two U.S. national table tennis champions played live at the back of the stage while the full symphony orchestra accompanied the rhythm of the game, turning the match into a percussive musical element. The piece paid tribute to the historic "ping-pong diplomacy" of the early 1970s, which played a key role in rekindling China-U.S. relations. ■