Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-27 02:54:00
People wait for their relatives in Gaza City on Jan. 26, 2025. Israeli Prime Minister's Office said in a statement on Saturday that Israel will not allow Palestinian residents to return to their homes in the northern Gaza Strip for the time being. (Photo by Mahmoud Zaki/Xinhua)
GAZA, Jan. 26 (Xinhua) -- Hamas on Sunday accused Israel of violating the ceasefire deal by banning Palestinian residents from returning to their homes in the northern Gaza Strip.
"Israel is stalling despite our sending confirmation that the hostage in Gaza, Arbel Yehuda, is alive," Hamas spokesperson Hazem Qassem said in a press statement.
Qassem called on Egyptian and Qatari mediators to pressure Israel to allow the return of the displaced Palestinians, noting that direct contacts are underway with mediators to find a solution and open the Netzarim Corridor that separates Gaza's north and south.
On Saturday, the Israeli prime minister's office said in a statement that Israel will not allow Palestinian residents to return to their homes in the northern Gaza Strip until the release of Israeli civilian Arbel Yehud, who was scheduled to be freed on Saturday but was replaced by an Israeli female soldier by Hamas.
Tens of thousands of residents of the northern Gaza Strip were forced to leave their homes during the 15-month fighting between Israel and Hamas and move to temporary places in the southern Gaza Strip.
They are supposed to return to their homes according to the ceasefire-hostage deal reached between Israel and Hamas earlier this month.
Meanwhile, two Palestinians were killed by Israeli gunfire in the central and southern Gaza Strip on Sunday, Palestinian medical sources said.
Al-Awda Hospital said in a press statement that one Palestinian was killed and 15 others wounded by the Israeli army in two separate incidents in Nuseirat camp and al-Bureij in central Gaza Strip.
Another Palestinian was killed after being shot by the Israeli army in the center of Rafah city in the southern Gaza Strip, according to Palestinian paramedics.
The Israeli army confirmed in a press statement that all existing instructions banning Palestinians approaching the Netzarim corridor are still effective until it is announced to open.
On Saturday, a senior official of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad movement revealed that the Israeli hostage Yehud was alive and would be released on Feb. 1. ■
People wait for their relatives in Gaza City on Jan. 26, 2025.
Israeli Prime Minister's Office said in a statement on Saturday that Israel will not allow Palestinian residents to return to their homes in the northern Gaza Strip for the time being. (Photo by Mahmoud Zaki/Xinhua)