Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-06 23:57:30
Photo taken on Jan. 6, 2025 shows artifacts uncovered at an excavation site of a Byzantine-period monastery near Kiryat Gat, Israel. Israeli archaeologists have uncovered a Byzantine-period monastery with mosaics covering the floor, which dates back about 1,500 years, the Israel Antiquities Authority said in a statement on Monday. (Gideon Markowicz/JINI via Xinhua)
JERUSALEM, Jan. 6 (Xinhua) -- Israeli archaeologists have uncovered a Byzantine-period monastery with mosaics covering the floor, which dates back about 1,500 years, the Israel Antiquities Authority said in a statement on Monday.
The discovery was made during an excavation near the southern Israeli city of Kiryat Gat, about 56 km south of Tel Aviv.
The floor features intricate mosaics showing crosses, lions, doves, flowers, and geometric patterns, with a Greek inscription at its center that reads, "Blessed are you when you come in, and blessed are you when you go out."
According to the researchers, this monastery is the largest and most significant site in the Roman and Byzantine periods ever discovered in the region.
The site was strategically located at a central road junction that connected the mountainous region to the coastal plain, serving both settlements and travelers passing through the area, said excavation directors Shira Lifshitz and Maayan Margulis.
In addition to the monastery, the remains of at least nine other structures, including a winepress with blue and white mosaic flooring in the fermentation rooms and collecting vats, were unearthed during the excavation.
Numerous artifacts, such as imported pottery, coins, marble fragments, and metal and glass vessels, were also discovered, indicating an affluent and sophisticated community in the area. ■
An employee displays artifacts at an excavation site of a Byzantine-period monastery near Kiryat Gat, Israel, on Jan. 6, 2025. Israeli archaeologists have uncovered a Byzantine-period monastery with mosaics covering the floor, which dates back about 1,500 years, the Israel Antiquities Authority said in a statement on Monday. (Gideon Markowicz/JINI via Xinhua)
An employee works at an excavation site of a Byzantine-period monastery near Kiryat Gat, Israel, on Jan. 6, 2025. Israeli archaeologists have uncovered a Byzantine-period monastery with mosaics covering the floor, which dates back about 1,500 years, the Israel Antiquities Authority said in a statement on Monday. (Gideon Markowicz/JINI via Xinhua)
Photo taken on Jan. 6, 2025 shows mosaics at an excavation site of a Byzantine-period monastery near Kiryat Gat, Israel. Israeli archaeologists have uncovered a Byzantine-period monastery with mosaics covering the floor, which dates back about 1,500 years, the Israel Antiquities Authority said in a statement on Monday. (Gideon Markowicz/JINI via Xinhua)
An employee works at an excavation site of a Byzantine-period monastery near Kiryat Gat, Israel, on Jan. 6, 2025. Israeli archaeologists have uncovered a Byzantine-period monastery with mosaics covering the floor, which dates back about 1,500 years, the Israel Antiquities Authority said in a statement on Monday. (Gideon Markowicz/JINI via Xinhua)
An employee displays an artifact at an excavation site of a Byzantine-period monastery near Kiryat Gat, Israel, on Jan. 6, 2025. Israeli archaeologists have uncovered a Byzantine-period monastery with mosaics covering the floor, which dates back about 1,500 years, the Israel Antiquities Authority said in a statement on Monday. (Gideon Markowicz/JINI via Xinhua)