Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-10 04:36:30
UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 9 (Xinhua) -- Critical supply shortages, severe access restrictions and violent armed looting are contributing to a hunger crisis across the Gaza Strip, UN humanitarians said on Thursday.
The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said aid partners had exhausted all supplies at their warehouses at a time when Israeli authorities continue to deny most requests to bring food assistance from the Erez West crossing to areas south of Wadi Gaza.
OCHA also said 120,000 metric tons of food assistance is stranded outside Gaza. The food is enough for the entire population for more than three months.
UN partners warned that if additional supplies are not received, the distribution of food parcels to hungry families will remain extremely limited. More than 50 community kitchens providing more than 200,000 meals daily to people in central and southern Gaza would also be at risk of shutting down in the coming days.
The World Food Programme (WFP) reported that, as of Monday, only five of 20 bakeries supported by WFP are still operational across the Gaza Strip, all in North Gaza governorate. To stay up and running, the bakeries must rely on continued fuel deliveries by partners from southern Gaza.
OCHA warned that the lack of fuel to power generators is also crippling Gaza's health system, putting the lives of patients at risk.
"Despite ongoing challenges, we and our partners are working to reach people throughout the Strip with critical support," the office said. "Across Gaza, between Dec. 22 and Wednesday, our partners report that some 560,000 people received primary and secondary healthcare services."
The office said the continuing hostilities in North Gaza governorate have severely disrupted healthcare services for survivors who remain there. Access to Al Awda Hospital in Jabalya -- the only hospital in North Gaza still partially functioning -- is extremely limited.
OCHA said that Israeli authorities continue to deny UN-led efforts, including the most recent attempt on Wednesday, to reach North Gaza governorate.
The humanitarians said that across the Gaza Strip, out of 15 coordinated humanitarian movements, the Israeli authorities facilitated only five missions while four were impeded, three were denied and another three were canceled due to security or logistical challenges.
The office also said the Gaza Ministry of Health reported that more than 46,000 Palestinians have been killed in the Gaza Strip since October 2023; most of the fatalities were women and children. Eight newborn babies died of hypothermia in the last month alone.
OCHA said relentless operations by the Israeli Defense Forces are causing mass casualties and widespread destruction. The conditions are particularly alarming in besieged North Gaza, where the movement of humanitarian personnel is heavily restricted. Rocket fire by Palestinian armed groups toward Israel also continues, endangering civilians there, as well.
Stephane Dujarric, chief spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, said: "The secretary-general again strongly condemns the widespread killing of -- and injury to -- civilians in this conflict. He calls on all to respect international humanitarian law and demands the protection of all civilians. Civilians must be protected and respected at all times and their essential needs must be met. There must be an immediate ceasefire and the immediate and unconditional release of all the hostages being held in Gaza." ■