Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-15 03:58:15
TEHRAN, Jan. 14 (Xinhua) -- Senior diplomats from Iran and the European Union (EU) on Tuesday exchanged views on the country's nuclear program and the lifting of sanctions on Tehran.
In a post on social media platform X, Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister for Legal and International Affairs Kazem Gharibabadi said he and Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister for Political Affairs Majid Takht Ravanchi had held "open and constructive" discussions with Enrique Mora, deputy secretary-general of the European External Action Service, and his team in Geneva on Tuesday.
He added they had exchanged views mainly on Iran's nuclear program and removing sanctions on Tehran as well as other issues of mutual interest.
In a post on X, Mora described his meeting with the Iranian deputy foreign ministers as "constructive," saying they had explored ways for a diplomatic solution to the nuclear issue, adding bilateral and regional issues were also on the agenda during the meeting.
Iran and three European powers -- France, Britain and Germany -- on Monday agreed to restart discussions on lifting sanctions against Iran and addressing Tehran's nuclear program, Gharibabadi said in a post following talks with the European states' representatives in Geneva on the same day.
He added the talks were "serious, frank, and constructive," adding they went into detail about removing sanctions and the nuclear issues needed for a deal.
"Everyone agreed on the need to restart talks on removing sanctions and Iran's nuclear program," he said, adding that reaching a deal needs "a good environment" created by all sides.
Iran signed a nuclear agreement with world powers in July 2015, agreeing to limit its nuclear work in return for easing sanctions. The United States left the deal in May 2018 and put sanctions back in place, causing Tehran to reduce its own commitments.
Talks to bring the 2015 deal back to life began in Vienna in April 2021 but have made little progress despite many rounds of discussions. ■