Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-14 03:31:00
BEIRUT, Feb. 13 (Xinhua) -- Lebanese Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri voiced on Thursday Lebanon's "absolute rejection" of Israel's demand to hold five locations in southern Lebanon beyond the ceasefire deadline on Feb. 18, according to the official National News Agency.
"I refused to discuss any extension of the withdrawal timeline. It is the Americans' responsibility to enforce the withdrawal; otherwise, they would be causing the biggest setback for the government," Berri told reporters in the Lebanese village of Ain al-Tineh after meeting with U.S. General Jasper Jeffers, head of a five-member monitoring committee on the ceasefire agreement between Israel and Hezbollah, in the presence of U.S. Ambassador to Lebanon Lisa Johnson.
"If the (Israeli) occupation remains, time will tell. This is the responsibility of the Lebanese state, and the army is fully carrying out its duties south of the Litani River. As for the area north of the Litani, that matter is for the Lebanese people and a national dialogue table to discuss a defense strategy," he said.
According to Lebanese local TV channel LBCI, Berri has rejected deploying foreign forces at border positions, stressing that the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon and the Lebanese army are fully prepared to handle the task.
Earlier Thursday, Bloomberg reported that Israeli Strategic Affairs Minister Ron Dermer said Israel will retain control over five strategic points in Lebanon after the deadline.
Israeli public broadcaster KAN later reported that the United States has permitted Israel to stay "in several locations" in Lebanon beyond the deadline. Israeli newspaper Haaretz said the United States has yet to decide whether to approve or reject Israel's demand for a withdrawal delay.
The U.S. and French-brokered ceasefire, in effect since Nov. 27, 2024, initially set a 60-day timeline for Israel's withdrawal from Lebanese territory. However, due to delays, the agreement was extended on Jan. 26 until Feb. 18 following a U.S. proposal.
As part of the ceasefire terms, the Lebanese army has been deployed along the Lebanon-Israel border and in southern Lebanon to uphold security and enforce the prohibition of weapons and armed groups south of the Litani River, in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1701. ■