Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-11 03:27:45
People walk past Türkiye's central bank in Ankara, Türkiye, on Feb. 10, 2025. Türkiye's central bank is expected to take a cautious approach to interest rate cuts after unexpectedly raising its year-end inflation forecast at the start of 2025, according to experts. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)
by Burak Akinci
ANKARA, Feb. 10 (Xinhua) -- Türkiye's central bank is expected to take a cautious approach to interest rate cuts after unexpectedly raising its year-end inflation forecast at the start of 2025, according to experts.
On Friday, the bank increased its inflation target for the end of 2025 to 24 percent, up from 21 percent, signaling a more measured stance on monetary easing than previously expected.
Central Bank Governor Fatih Karahan suggested a possible pause in rate cuts if inflationary pressures persist.
"The bank is not operating on autopilot" he told reporters in Istanbul, Türkiye's financial hub, during the first quarterly inflation report of the year, after two consecutive rate cuts in December and January.
"The number and scope of interest rate cuts will depend on the inflation outlook," he said. "We will evaluate all options if inflation worsens."
Despite the adjustment to its 2025 target, the bank maintained its long-term projections, forecasting 12 percent inflation by the end of 2026 and 8 percent by 2027.
Atilla Yesilada, an economist at Global Source Partners Türkiye from Istanbul, said the central bank faces a delicate balancing act between tackling inflation and addressing high borrowing costs ahead of its March 6 policy review.
He said the decision to raise the 2025 inflation forecast was realistic, as most analysts had already anticipated a higher figure.
Independent Istanbul-based economist Mustafa Sonmez also argued that the central bank's earlier forecast was off target, particularly in light of January's unexpectedly high monthly inflation data.
"Even 24 percent is optimistic. Analyst expectations range around 27 percent for the end of 2025," he told Xinhua.
In January, Türkiye's headline inflation rate declined to 42.12 percent, down from 44.38 percent in December, while monthly inflation rose sharply to 5.03 percent, surpassing market expectations, according to official data released on Feb. 3.
Officials attributed the increase to a 30 percent rise in the minimum wage and price adjustments at the start of the year.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a longtime opponent of high interest rates, has also defended further interest rate cuts in 2025, despite concerns over persistent inflation.
Since 2018, Türkiye has faced double-digit inflation, significantly driving up the cost of living for millions. Policymakers argue that declining inflation will ease economic pressures on households in 2025, following a particularly challenging year.
Türkiye's annual inflation peaked at over 75 percent in May 2024 before entering a downward trend, driven by stricter monetary and fiscal policies that helped curb excessive domestic demand.
Following nearly 18 months of monetary tightening, the central bank cut rates twice in December and January, reducing its policy rate to 45 percent with 250 basis point cuts each time.
Meanwhile, international banking institutions have mostly predicted another rate cut in March.
U.S.-based credit rating agency Fitch Ratings also predicted further easing, with senior director Erich Arispe Morales stating last week that inflation would continue declining through 2025. ■
 
People withdraw money from ATMs in Ankara, Türkiye, on Feb. 10, 2025. Türkiye's central bank is expected to take a cautious approach to interest rate cuts after unexpectedly raising its year-end inflation forecast at the start of 2025, according to experts. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)