Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-10 21:29:15
by Xinhua writer Chen Junqing
JERUSALEM, Jan. 10 (Xinhua) -- Since I arrived in Jerusalem as a photojournalist in February 2023, capturing the sunsets has become one of my interests. Evenings often found me on the rooftop, watching the sun melt into golden, casting the city in a moment of tranquility and serenity.
But such tranquil routine lasted only a few months.
It was the morning of Oct. 7, 2023. I was jolted awake by the sharp, piercing wail of air raid sirens. "Take shelter immediately," my phone blared a dire alert. I jumped out of bed, grabbed my camera, and rushed toward the rooftop.
"Reckless! Foolish!" shouted my neighbors as they evacuated to the shelters, warning me as I dashed up. I knew the danger was real, but as a journalist, I felt compelled to document it for myself and to bear witness.
The rooftop, my usual vantage point for those picturesque sunsets, now echoed with thunderous booms as rocket plumes sliced through the sky.
My hands trembled as I pressed the shutter, capturing the moment when Hamas initiated its shocking attack on Israel.
Over 1,200 Israelis were killed in that rampage, and about 250 were taken captive by Hamas to Gaza as hostages.
Israel then initiated intensive military operations in Gaza, and soon neighboring countries like Yemen, Lebanon, Iran and Syria became embroiled in the conflict, unfolding before me as one of the largest Middle East crises in history.
As the clashes escalated, the city where I live increasingly became a target for attacks. Gradually, the subjects of my photos shifted from scenery, festivals and celebrations to rockets, explosion sites, and military tanks.
Gradually, I became accustomed to the pace of life and work during the war. Before going to bed, I would check my camera batteries, adjust the shutter speeds, and test the air raid alert. Only after that could I relax, while feeling prepared for the unexpected.
I consistently awakened at 4 in the morning to check for alerts. The sound of electric cars would jolt me, reminiscent of air raid sirens. Instinctively, I would look for walls to take cover behind while taking pictures, anxious about potential explosions.
However, deep down, I know that the most profound transformation the war has wrought within me is not in my daily habits, but in the way I perceive this land.
At times, the relentless bloodshed and escalating strife between Palestinians and Israelis compelled me to believe that perhaps there is no remedy for this deeply entrenched hatred and division.
It was a Sabbath evening, after a day filled with the usual bustle, I realized that it had been long since I last paused to take in the sunset over the city.
Ascending to the rooftop, I was welcomed by a sight I knew well: the twilight sky, painted in golden hues, enveloped the city in a radiant glow, turning Jerusalem into a shimmering canvas of warmth and light.
I captured the sunset and posted it on my social media.
"The sunsets in Jerusalem are the most beautiful," remarked a Jewish friend of mine from Israel, whose family had once been taken hostage in Gaza. Beneath his comment, a Palestinian I had previously interviewed liked it.
This was a rare moment of goodwill interaction between Palestinians and Israelis that I've rarely seen since the war in Gaza began.
I printed the sunset photo afterward and placed it on my desk, for through this image, I glimpsed a thread of hope for peace in the Middle East: despite all the conflicts and divisions, there is still a shared bond between Palestinians and Israelis: their love for this land. ■