Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-18 19:18:30
RAMALLAH, Jan. 18 (Xinhua) -- The Palestinian Presidency on Friday welcomed the Gaza ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas and expressed readiness to take over the administration of the strip.
In a statement issued by the Palestinian News Agency WAFA, the presidency expressed its deep appreciation for Qatar and Egypt's efforts in securing the Gaza ceasefire. It also recognized the recent contributions of Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and the United States.
The statement highlighted that the Palestinian government has finalized its preparations to fully take charge in Gaza. Administrative and security teams are prepared to ease the suffering of residents, help displaced individuals return to their homes, restore vital services like water and electricity, manage border crossings and begin reconstruction efforts.
The presidency stressed the necessity for the State of Palestine to fully assume its responsibilities in Gaza following the Israeli war, emphasizing that Gaza is an inseparable part of the occupied Palestinian territory.
The statement called on the international community, neighboring countries, and donor states to provide urgent humanitarian assistance to enable the Palestinian government to fulfill its responsibilities toward the Palestinian people.
The statement also stressed the pressing need for a political solution grounded in international legitimacy and the Arab Peace Initiative. It called for achieving security and stability in the region by ending the occupation and establishing the State of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital, based on the 1967 borders and in line with UN resolutions.
Israel and Hamas have agreed on a Gaza ceasefire-for-hostages deal after intensive mediation by Qatar, Egypt, and the United States. The agreement is set to come into effect on Sunday.
Since Oct. 7, 2023, Hamas and Israel have been engaged in a fierce conflict that has killed over 46,000 Palestinians in Gaza and caused unprecedented destruction. The conflict began after Hamas launched a surprise attack on Israel, killing Israelis and taking hostages. ■