Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-15 19:24:00
A woman watches the televised broadcast of the hostage release process through a big screen at a square in Tel Aviv, Israel, on Feb. 15, 2025. Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad on Saturday handed over three Israeli hostages to the International Committee of the Red Cross in Khan Younis in southern Gaza Strip, as part of the sixth swap in the first phase of the ceasefire agreement. (Xinhua/Chen Junqing)
GAZA/JERUSALEM, Feb. 15 (Xinhua) -- Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad on Saturday handed over three Israeli hostages to the International Committee of the Red Cross in Khan Younis in southern Gaza Strip, as part of the sixth swap in the first phase of the ceasefire agreement.
The three hostages, Alexandre (Sasha) Troufanov, Sagui Dekel-Chen and Yair Horn, were kidnapped in the Hamas attack on southern Israel on Oct. 7, 2023.
The Israeli authorities released 369 Palestinian prisoners and detainees from its jails as part of the sixth batch of prisoner-for-hostage exchanges between Israel and Hamas.
Among the freed prisoners were 36 serving life sentences, and 333 detainees who had been arrested by Israel from the Gaza Strip following the Oct. 7, 2023 attack.
The three hostages ascended to the handover platform amid tight security measures, in the presence of members of al-Qassam Brigades, the military wing of Hamas, and al-Quds Brigades, the armed wing of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad movement.
In a statement immediately after the handover, Hamas described the release of the hostages as "a confirmation that there is no way to release them except through negotiations and by adhering to the requirements of the ceasefire agreement."
Hamas Spokesperson Abdul Latif Al-Qanou said the resumption of the prisoner exchange process was based on Hamas' commitment to the agreement with the mediators.
He explained that "the catastrophic humanitarian and living conditions in the Gaza Strip, as a result of the ongoing war for 15 months, cannot tolerate further procrastination in bringing in shelter supplies and basic needs, including fuel, heavy equipment, medical devices and supplies, and infrastructure restoration materials."
The release came amid heightened tensions after U.S. President Donald Trump warned that if "all of the hostages" in Gaza were not freed by Saturday noon, the truce would be canceled and he would "let hell break out." ■
Supporters of the hostages watch the televised broadcast of the hostage release process through a big screen at a square in Tel Aviv, Israel, on Feb. 15, 2025. Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad on Saturday handed over three Israeli hostages to the International Committee of the Red Cross in Khan Younis in southern Gaza Strip, as part of the sixth swap in the first phase of the ceasefire agreement. (Xinhua/Chen Junqing)
Supporters of the hostages watch the televised broadcast of the hostage release process through a big screen at a square in Tel Aviv, Israel, on Feb. 15, 2025. Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad on Saturday handed over three Israeli hostages to the International Committee of the Red Cross in Khan Younis in southern Gaza Strip, as part of the sixth swap in the first phase of the ceasefire agreement. (Xinhua/Chen Junqing)