Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-06 22:27:45
GAZA, Jan. 6 (Xinhua) -- At least 19 Palestinians were killed in Israeli airstrikes across Gaza, while an infant died due to severe cold weather on Monday, according to Palestinian sources.
Eight Palestinians, including a woman, a child, and two twin brothers, were killed and 15 others injured in Israeli air raids targeting three houses in Gaza City and Jabalia in the northern Gaza Strip, Mahmoud Basal, spokesperson for the Palestinian Civil Defense in Gaza, told Xinhua.
Another four were killed in an Israeli bombing at a house in the Bureij refugee camp in central Gaza, Basal said.
The Al-Awda Hospital said in a press statement that 40 people, most of them children, were injured after an Israeli drone dropped an explosive bomb in the yard of a school housing displaced people west of the al-Nuseirat camp in central Gaza.
The Nasser Medical Complex in Khan Younis, southern Gaza, said in a statement that seven people, including two children, were killed by Israeli airstrikes and artillery shelling on the neighboring Rafah city.
Meanwhile, the Gaza-based health authorities said in a press statement that 35-day-old infant Youssef Kalloub froze to death on Monday.
In a statement, the Hamas-run Gaza government media office warned that the number is likely to rise due to the harsh conditions experienced by the displaced people in Gaza.
It urged the international community to compel Israel to stop the war and end its "serious repercussions," while calling on Arab countries to offer more humanitarian aid to the enclave amidst cold weather and lack of shelter.
"Cold weather and lack of shelter are causing the deaths of newborns in Gaza. 7,700 newborns lack lifesaving care. To date, at least seven babies have reportedly died," the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East wrote Sunday on social media platform X.
Israel has been conducting a large-scale offensive against Hamas in Gaza to retaliate against a Hamas rampage through the southern Israeli border on Oct. 7, 2023, during which about 1,200 people were killed and about 250 taken hostages.
The Palestinian death toll from ongoing Israeli attacks in Gaza has risen to 45,854, the Gaza-based health authorities said in a statement on Monday. ■