Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-23 01:20:15
Geir Pedersen, the United Nations special envoy to Syria, addresses a press conference in Damascus, Syria, on Jan. 22, 2025. Pedersen on Wednesday enumerated seven obstacles confronting Syria's new leadership, ranging from the integration of armed factions into a single national force to ending sanctions and fostering economic recovery. (Photo by Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua)
DAMASCUS, Jan. 22 (Xinhua) -- The United Nations special envoy to Syria, Geir Pedersen, on Wednesday enumerated seven obstacles confronting Syria's new leadership, ranging from the integration of armed factions into a single national force to ending sanctions and fostering economic recovery.
"Number one is uniting the armed groups under a national army," Pedersen told reporters during a press conference in Damascus. "Number two concerns the specific challenges in the northeast, and three is ensuring protection for all Syrians. Fourth, as I've mentioned before, is the political transition. Fifth is transitional justice. Sixth, the matter of sanctions, economic recovery, and reconstruction. And seventh, last but not least, the Israeli presence."
Pedersen stressed that the political transition, featuring a new constitution and free elections, must be "Syrian-led and Syrian-owned" in order to succeed. "We need an inclusive transition," he said.
The envoy also called for sanctions to be lifted to expedite Syria's reconstruction, adding that time may be needed before it becomes feasible to negotiate such relief with the U.S. government.
Addressing concerns about the northeast, in terms of the conflict between Turkiye-backed groups and U.S.-backed Kurdish-led groups, Pedersen urged that ongoing negotiations should be given a chance, warning that renewed hostilities between Syria's new government and local armed forces would serve no one's interests.
Pedersen reiterated the UN's willingness to assist the transitional administration, emphasizing that the process will require international cooperation. ■
Geir Pedersen (R), the United Nations special envoy to Syria, addresses a press conference in Damascus, Syria, on Jan. 22, 2025. Pedersen on Wednesday enumerated seven obstacles confronting Syria's new leadership, ranging from the integration of armed factions into a single national force to ending sanctions and fostering economic recovery. (Photo by Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua)
Geir Pedersen (R), the United Nations special envoy to Syria, addresses a press conference in Damascus, Syria, on Jan. 22, 2025. Pedersen on Wednesday enumerated seven obstacles confronting Syria's new leadership, ranging from the integration of armed factions into a single national force to ending sanctions and fostering economic recovery. (Photo by Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua)
Geir Pedersen (1st R), the United Nations special envoy to Syria, addresses a press conference in Damascus, Syria, on Jan. 22, 2025. Pedersen on Wednesday enumerated seven obstacles confronting Syria's new leadership, ranging from the integration of armed factions into a single national force to ending sanctions and fostering economic recovery. (Photo by Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua)
Geir Pedersen, the United Nations special envoy to Syria, addresses a press conference in Damascus, Syria, on Jan. 22, 2025. Pedersen on Wednesday enumerated seven obstacles confronting Syria's new leadership, ranging from the integration of armed factions into a single national force to ending sanctions and fostering economic recovery. (Photo by Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua)
Geir Pedersen, the United Nations special envoy to Syria, attends a press conference in Damascus, Syria, on Jan. 22, 2025. Pedersen on Wednesday enumerated seven obstacles confronting Syria's new leadership, ranging from the integration of armed factions into a single national force to ending sanctions and fostering economic recovery. (Photo by Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua)
Geir Pedersen (C-R), the United Nations special envoy to Syria, addresses a press conference in Damascus, Syria, on Jan. 22, 2025. Pedersen on Wednesday enumerated seven obstacles confronting Syria's new leadership, ranging from the integration of armed factions into a single national force to ending sanctions and fostering economic recovery. (Photo by Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua)
Geir Pedersen, the United Nations special envoy to Syria, attends a press conference in Damascus, Syria, on Jan. 22, 2025. Pedersen on Wednesday enumerated seven obstacles confronting Syria's new leadership, ranging from the integration of armed factions into a single national force to ending sanctions and fostering economic recovery. (Photo by Ammar Safarjalani/Xinhua)