Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-13 01:00:45
Doctor Khaled al-Saidani works at Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir al-Balah city, central Gaza Strip, on Jan. 9, 2025. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua)
GAZA, Jan. 12 (Xinhua) -- Dr. Khaled al-Saidani moves deliberately between hospital beds at Al-Aqsa Hospital's pediatric ward, his prosthetic leg a testament to the personal toll of a war that has devastated Gaza's medical system. For him, the choice to continue practicing medicine, even after losing his leg to an Israeli airstrike, wasn't really a choice at all.
"It is my mission," said Al-Saidani, 51, his voice steady despite his struggle to navigate the ward. "Even if I became a disabled man, I still have the medical experience that all my community needs."
The airstrike that claimed his leg six months ago also destroyed his home in the al-Bureij refugee camp and killed several family members. Like thousands of others in Gaza, he became both a victim and a caregiver in a war that has upended countless lives.
"Without any prior notice, my family and I became displaced," he said, his words weighted with the memory. "But what made the matter worsen was the fact that I became a disabled man who even cannot help himself."
The aftermath plunged him into months of depression, a dark period when he questioned whether life was worth living. "Several times, I wished that I was killed during the attack," he admitted. "I felt that my life lost all of its value since I became a burden on my family and community."
But Gaza's mounting medical crisis -- with hospitals under strain and medical staff in short supply -- eventually pulled him back to work. At first, he relied on a wheelchair. Now he uses a locally made prosthetic leg, though it's far from ideal. "The prosthetic is not in the best condition," he said, "but at least it motivates me to continue my work."
Al-Saidani faces another looming medical challenge: tests have revealed a severe arterial blockage in his remaining leg that could, in the worst case, necessitate another amputation. Yet he refuses to step away from his duties.
"I cannot leave the hospital, especially since I am a pediatrician and the children require special care during the war," he said, embodying the determination of Gaza's medical workers to continue their work despite personal trauma and professional challenges.
The war, which began after Hamas's Oct. 7 attack on Israel that killed about 1,200 people, has claimed more than 46,000 Palestinian lives and injured over 109,000, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health. The majority of casualties have been women and children.
For Al-Saidani, returning to work has become more than just fulfilling a professional obligation -- it has restored his sense of purpose. "My return to the hospital restored my desire to cling to life," he said, "and continue my work no matter the circumstances." ■
Doctor Khaled al-Saidani checks a patient at Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir al-Balah city, central Gaza Strip, on Jan. 9, 2025. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua)
Doctor Khaled al-Saidani is seen at Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir al-Balah city, central Gaza Strip, on Jan. 9, 2025. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua)
Doctor Khaled al-Saidani checks a patient at Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir al-Balah city, central Gaza Strip, on Jan. 9, 2025. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua)
Doctor Khaled al-Saidani is seen at Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir al-Balah city, central Gaza Strip, on Jan. 9, 2025. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua)