Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-27 04:59:45
RAMALLAH, Jan. 26 (Xinhua) -- The Palestinian death toll from the ongoing Israeli military operation in the city of Jenin and its refugee camp in the northern West Bank has risen to 16, according to the Ramallah-based Palestinian Health Ministry.
The ministry confirmed in a brief statement that 26-year-old Abdul Jawad al-Ghoul died from critical injuries sustained in Israeli gunfire on Tuesday.
His death follows the killing of two Palestinians on Friday in an Israeli airstrike targeting a vehicle in Qabatiya, south of Jenin.
On Tuesday, the Israeli army launched a large-scale military operation in Jenin and its refugee camp.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Tuesday that the operation aims to "eradicate terrorism" in Jenin and claimed Iran is behind anti-Israeli militant activity in the city.
The operation comes as Israel halted its fighting in Gaza on Sunday, as the truce agreement took effect. Still, the violence escalated in the West Bank with the raid in Jenin and a series of settler attacks on Palestinian villages.
Kamal Abu al-Rub, the governor of Jenin in the Palestinian Authority, told Xinhua on Sunday that Israeli forces continue to besiege the camp, preventing ambulances and press crews from knowing what is happening inside its neighborhoods and alleys.
He added that the Israeli army burned at least 25 homes, and there are demolitions and bulldozing of structures in the camp.
He estimated that around 3,000 families had been displaced in recent days.
According to Palestinian political experts, the Israeli military escalation in the occupied West Bank appears to be part of a broader strategy aimed at reshaping the region to Israel's advantage.
Mustafa Basharat, a Ramallah-based Palestinian political expert, said the Israeli military operation is a calculated move in a larger, more dangerous plan.
Ibrahim Rabaia, another Ramallah-based analyst, warns of the spillover effect of the Israeli military operation.
"The whole region is a powder keg. If this continues, it could explode into chaos, dragging the entire Middle East into another cycle of violence," said Rabaia.
Regional countries including Jordan, Iraq, UAE and Egypt have condemned the Israeli military operation.
In a statement released on Thursday, Egypt's foreign ministry warned of the operation's repercussions on the security and stability of the West Bank, cautioning that it could further escalate tensions in the region.
Tensions escalated in the West Bank since the outbreak of the war between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip in October 2023.
According to data from the Palestinian Ministry of Health, more than 800 Palestinians have been killed in Israeli attacks in the West Bank since then. ■