Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-24 16:07:45
GAZA, Jan. 24 (Xinhua) -- A senior official from the Islamic Resistance Movement (Hamas) said Thursday that the ceasefire agreement in the Gaza Strip is holding despite Israeli violations.
Hamas leader in the West Bank Zaher Jabarin said in statements published on the movement's website that the ceasefire agreement is proceeding "despite some violations" by Israel.
Jabarin did not elaborate on the nature of these violations. However, since the ceasefire took effect last Sunday, five Palestinians have been killed by Israeli fire in Gaza. The Israeli army claimed they were targeting armed individuals posing a threat to its forces.
Jabarin added that, as part of the agreement, Hamas will hand over the names of four Israeli detainees to the mediators on Friday, enabling the Israeli side to submit the names of the Palestinian prisoners set for release, which will include those serving long-term and life sentences, representing all Palestinian factions.
Jabarin also said the agreement includes inspecting vehicles traveling from southern to northern Gaza through the Netzarim axis, with oversight by Egyptian and Qatari monitors.
He also mentioned that Hamas "did not prefer a phased agreement", and that "we stressed the importance of connecting all stages together."
"Negotiations for the second phase will begin in two weeks, focusing on three key issues: a full withdrawal from Gaza, establishing a permanent ceasefire, and a comprehensive prisoner exchange," he added.
On Gaza's reconstruction, Jabarin emphasized that "accelerating the reconstruction process is a top priority for the movement, with agreed-upon mechanisms in place and mediators serving as guarantors."
Regarding the operation of the Rafah border crossing, Jabarin emphasized that it is a matter between Palestine and Egypt, and the mechanism for its operation will be announced in the coming days.
The ceasefire agreement between Israel and Hamas took effect at 11:15 a.m. local time (0915 GMT) on Sunday.
In a joint statement on Wednesday, the mediating countries -- Egypt, Qatar and the United States announced that Hamas and Israel had reached an agreement for a prisoner and detainee exchange and a return to sustainable calm, paving the way for a permanent ceasefire between the two sides.
The agreement is divided into three phases. In the first phase, which will last 42 days, 33 Israeli hostages will be released, while Israel will free over 1,890 Palestinian prisoners during the same period. ■