Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-03 02:54:30
Saudi Crown Prince and Prime Minister Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud (R, front) shakes hands with Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa (L, front) in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Feb. 2, 2025. Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa arrived in the Saudi capital on Sunday for his first official visit abroad. (SPA/Handout via Xinhua)
RIYADH, Feb. 2 (Xinhua) -- Saudi Crown Prince and Prime Minister Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud and Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa reviewed in Riyadh on Sunday bilateral relations and the latest developments in Syria.
The two sides discussed ways to enhance Syria's security and stability, as well as opportunities for cooperation across various sectors, and exchanged views on regional developments and ongoing efforts to address them, the Saudi Press Agency reported.
The Saudi crown prince congratulated al-Sharaa on assuming the presidency of Syria and wished him success in fulfilling the aspirations of the Syrian people.
For his part, al-Sharaa expressed his gratitude to the crown prince for his good wishes and the kingdom's supportive stance toward Syria and its people.
Al-Sharaa arrived in the Saudi capital on Sunday for his first official visit abroad.
He has led the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham group since 2017 and played a key role in the offensive that led to the overthrow of former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in December 2024 and the establishment of the Syrian transitional government. He has been the country's de facto leader since Assad's ouster.
Syria's Military Operations Administration announced on Jan. 29 the appointment of al-Sharaa as president during the transitional period, granting him authority to establish an interim legislative council until a permanent constitution is ratified. ■
Saudi Crown Prince and Prime Minister Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud (R, front) shakes hands with Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa (L, front) in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Feb. 2, 2025.
Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa arrived in the Saudi capital on Sunday for his first official visit abroad. (SPA/Handout via Xinhua)
Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa (4th L) pays an official visit to Saudi Arabia, in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Feb. 2, 2025.
Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa arrived in the Saudi capital on Sunday for his first official visit abroad. (SPA/Handout via Xinhua)