Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-14 21:21:45
Relatives and supporters of hostages held in the Gaza Strip rally outside Israeli Prime Minister's office in Jerusalem, on Jan. 14, 2025. (Photo by Jamal Awad/Xinhua)
JERUSALEM, Jan. 14 (Xinhua) -- An Israeli official said Tuesday that "only final details" remain to be worked out in the Gaza ceasefire-for-hostage deal, as high-level talks are underway in Qatar's Doha.
The main unresolved issues are "technical," the official told Xinhua on condition of anonymity.
According to local media, Hamas has reportedly agreed to the deal, a draft of which was presented on Monday to both the group and Israel.
The official said the agreement could be announced as early as Tuesday or Wednesday, although "the final deal is yet to be achieved."
If an agreement is reached in Qatar, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is expected to convene the cabinet and government for a vote to approve the deal.
Netanyahu is facing opposition from two ultranationalist parties that are key partners in his coalition: Otzma Yehudit, led by Itamar Ben-Gvir, and HaTzionut HaDatit, led by Bezalel Smotrich.
Netanyahu and Smotrich held a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the deal, following a phone conversation the previous night. Smotrich has warned the deal would have "catastrophic" implications for national security and has called for the continuation of the war.
The indirect talks between Israel and Hamas have been mediated by Qatari, Egyptian, and U.S. officials for about a year, aiming to end more than 15 months of fighting that has devastated Gaza and destabilized the region. A total of 98 Israeli hostages -- including soldiers and civilians -- remain held in the Palestinian enclave by Hamas and allied factions. ■
Relatives and supporters of hostages held in the Gaza Strip rally outside Israeli Prime Minister's office in Jerusalem, on Jan. 14, 2025. (Photo by Jamal Awad/Xinhua)
Relatives and supporters of hostages held in the Gaza Strip rally outside Israeli Prime Minister's office in Jerusalem, on Jan. 14, 2025. (Photo by Jamal Awad/Xinhua)
Relatives and supporters of hostages held in the Gaza Strip rally outside Israeli Prime Minister's office in Jerusalem, on Jan. 14, 2025. (Photo by Jamal Awad/Xinhua)