Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-05 03:21:15
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (R) and Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa attend a joint press conference at the Presidential Complex in Ankara, Türkiye, on Feb. 4, 2025. Erdogan and Al-Sharaa on Tuesday reaffirmed their commitment to fully restoring relations and enhancing cooperation between their two countries. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)
ANKARA, Feb. 4 (Xinhua) -- Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa on Tuesday reaffirmed their commitment to fully restoring relations and enhancing cooperation between their two countries.
"Türkiye is ready to support the rebuilding of devastated Syrian cities," Erdogan said at a joint press conference after his talks with visiting al-Sharaa in Ankara.
Erdogan emphasized Türkiye's commitment to strengthening security in Syria, particularly by cracking down on terrorist groups such as the Islamic State and the Kurdish People's Protection Units, which Türkiye views as the Syrian branch of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party.
"By acting in solidarity with Syria, I believe we will fully establish a climate of peace and security in our shared region, free from terrorism," the Turkish president said.
Beyond security collaboration, both leaders expressed their determination to enhance economic ties between Türkiye and Syria. Erdogan highlighted the multidimensional nature of bilateral relations, noting advancements in various fields, including trade, civil aviation, energy, health, and education.
Al-Sharaa, for his part, expressed hope for deeper strategic cooperation with Türkiye, which he said would benefit both countries.
The Syrian interim president also stressed the importance of restoring commercial ties between the two nations.
"We will revive our commercial relations with Türkiye," he said, adding, "Hopefully, rehabilitating economic relations between Syria and Türkiye will help revive the Syrian economy."
During the press conference, al-Sharaa also extended an invitation to Erdogan for a visit to Damascus soon. ■
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (R) shakes hands with Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa during a joint press conference at the Presidential Complex in Ankara, Türkiye, on Feb. 4, 2025. Erdogan and Al-Sharaa on Tuesday reaffirmed their commitment to fully restoring relations and enhancing cooperation between their two countries. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (L) shakes hands with Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa at the Presidential Complex in Ankara, Türkiye, on Feb. 4, 2025. Erdogan and Al-Sharaa on Tuesday reaffirmed their commitment to fully restoring relations and enhancing cooperation between their two countries. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (R) shakes hands with Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa at the Presidential Complex in Ankara, Türkiye, on Feb. 4, 2025. Erdogan and Al-Sharaa on Tuesday reaffirmed their commitment to fully restoring relations and enhancing cooperation between their two countries. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (L) shakes hands with Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa at the Presidential Complex in Ankara, Türkiye, on Feb. 4, 2025. Erdogan and Al-Sharaa on Tuesday reaffirmed their commitment to fully restoring relations and enhancing cooperation between their two countries. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)