Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-12 11:47:00
U.S. President Donald Trump (C) welcomes visiting Jordanian King Abdullah II (R) and Crown Prince Hussein (L) at the White House in Washington D.C., the United States, Feb. 11, 2025.
Visiting Jordanian King Abdullah II on Tuesday rejected U.S. President Donald Trump's proposal to relocate Palestinians in the Gaza Strip. (Xinhua/Hu Yousong)
WASHINGTON, Feb. 11 (Xinhua) -- Visiting Jordanian King Abdullah II on Tuesday rejected U.S. President Donald Trump's proposal to relocate Palestinians in the Gaza Strip.
In a post on the social media platform X after meeting Trump, Abdullah said he reiterated Jordan's "steadfast position" against the displacement of Palestinians. "This is the unified Arab position. Rebuilding Gaza without displacing the Palestinians and addressing the dire humanitarian situation should be the priority for all."
"Achieving just peace on the basis of the two-state solution is the way to ensure regional stability," he added.
Earlier, Trump had proposed that the United States should take control of the Gaza Strip and that the Palestinians be relocated to neighboring Jordan and Egypt, which has been widely condemned.
While speaking to reporters in the Oval Office regarding Trump's proposal, Abdullah said that Jordan can take in 2,000 Palestinian children, either suffering from cancer or in a critically ill state, "as quickly as possible" and then wait for "the Egyptians to present their plan."
Trump responded by calling it "really a beautiful gesture," retracting the threat he made a day earlier, when he said that the United States "could conceivably withhold aid" from Jordan and Egypt if the two countries did not agree to receive Palestinians. ■
U.S. President Donald Trump (L) welcomes visiting Jordanian King Abdullah II at the White House in Washington D.C., the United States, Feb. 11, 2025.
Visiting Jordanian King Abdullah II on Tuesday rejected U.S. President Donald Trump's proposal to relocate Palestinians in the Gaza Strip. (Xinhua/Hu Yousong)