Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-26 03:30:30
A staff member from a Chinese enterprise displays paintings themed on Chinese zodiac Year of the Snake during a Spring Festival celebration held by the Iraq-China Friendship Association in Baghdad, Iraq, on Jan. 24, 2025. (Xinhua/Khalil Dawood)
BAGHDAD, Jan. 25 (Xinhua) -- Decorated with traditional Chinese couplets, red lanterns, and vibrant symbols of the Year of the Snake, the Qasr Aliya restaurant -- once Queen Aliya's palace -- radiated festive energy. Overlooking the Tigris River as it winds through Baghdad, the venue became a meeting ground for diplomacy, culture, and celebration during the Iraq-China Friendship Association's event on Friday, welcoming the Chinese Spring Festival.
According to the Chinese lunar calendar, this year's Spring Festival falls on Jan. 29, marking the start of the Year of the Snake. The event drew a diverse crowd, including Chinese Ambassador to Iraq Cui Wei, Iraqi officials, business leaders, and representatives of Chinese companies operating in the country.
The festivities showcased the rich cultural tapestries of both nations through artistic performances, including traditional Chinese and Iraqi fashion displays and musical interludes. These moments of cultural exchange underscored the historical and contemporary connections between the two countries.
Highlighting the global significance of the Chinese New Year, Cui noted its inscription on UNESCO's Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. "Its cultural influence continues to expand, becoming a bridge that fosters understanding and friendship worldwide," he said.
The ambassador also emphasized the broader context of Iraq-China relations, noting this year marks the 10th anniversary of the China-Iraq strategic partnership and the signing of their Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) cooperation agreement. "Over the past decade, our relations have grown steadily and yielded significant results in various fields," Cui said, calling Iraq an essential partner in the BRI's development.
One of the highlights of the celebration was the presence of representatives from Chinese enterprises deeply involved in Iraq's post-war reconstruction. From infrastructure projects like roads, bridges, and power plants to advancements in energy and education, Chinese companies have played a pivotal role in supporting Iraq's recovery.
Zhang Qing, general manager of Shanghai Electric's Iraq branch, reflected on the dual mission of these enterprises: "Our endeavors extend beyond our own growth; they foster a bridge of friendship between China and Iraq. Like the enduring flow of the Tigris, the friendship between our nations continues unabated, ushering in new and glorious chapters."
The bilateral relationship between Iraq and China is not merely about economic and trade cooperation, but serves as a model of friendship that transcends history, built on mutual respect and a shared aspiration for a better future, said Haider Al-Rubeiy, head of the Iraq-China Friendship Association.
Toward the end of the celebration, an Iraqi engineer working for a Chinese company told Xinhua, "What the Chinese companies have brought to us is not only advanced technology and rich experience, but also their sincere care for the Iraqi people. Their contributions to Iraq have improved our lives, illuminating our hopes for the future." ■
A model displays traditional Iraqi attire during a Spring Festival celebration held by the Iraq-China Friendship Association in Baghdad, Iraq, on Jan. 24, 2025. (Xinhua/Khalil Dawood)
A staff member from a Chinese enterprise plays Erhu, a traditional Chinese stringed instrument, during a Spring Festival celebration held by the Iraq-China Friendship Association in Baghdad, Iraq, on Jan. 24, 2025. (Xinhua/Khalil Dawood)
A model displays traditional Iraqi attire during a Spring Festival celebration held by the Iraq-China Friendship Association in Baghdad, Iraq, on Jan. 24, 2025. (Xinhua/Khalil Dawood)