Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-17 23:13:30
Visiting French President Emmanuel Macron addresses a joint press conference with Lebanese President Joseph Aoun (not in the picture) at Baabda Palace in Baabda, Lebanon, on Jan. 17, 2025. Macron reaffirmed on Friday France's commitment to supporting the Lebanese army, announcing plans to establish a new training center for Lebanese soldiers. (Xinhua/Bilal Jawich)
BEIRUT, Jan. 17 (Xinhua) -- Visiting French President Emmanuel Macron reaffirmed on Friday France's commitment to supporting the Lebanese army, announcing plans to establish a new training center for Lebanese soldiers.
"France will establish a new center to train 500 Lebanese soldiers," Macron said during a joint press conference at Baabda Palace with Lebanese President Joseph Aoun.
Macron highlighted France's support for Lebanon's sovereignty and its leadership's efforts to ensure the country's full control over its territory.
He expressed France's aspiration for the complete withdrawal of Israeli forces and for all weapons to be under the exclusive control of the Lebanese army.
"We will work to mobilize the international community to assist Lebanon across various sectors," Macron added.
For his part, Aoun said, "The world's confidence in Lebanon must also be fully restored because the true and authentic Lebanon has returned."
Macron arrived in Beirut on Friday for an official visit.
Upon his arrival, Macron also met with Lebanese Prime Minister Najib Mikati to discuss potential support initiatives for Lebanon.
Mikati said that Macron expressed his willingness to support Lebanon through a trust fund that the Lebanese government plans to establish in collaboration with the World Bank to aid in the reconstruction of southern Lebanon. ■
Lebanese President Joseph Aoun (C-R) and visiting French President Emmanuel Macron (C-L) attend a joint press conference at Baabda Palace in Baabda, Lebanon, on Jan. 17, 2025. Macron reaffirmed on Friday France's commitment to supporting the Lebanese army, announcing plans to establish a new training center for Lebanese soldiers. (Xinhua/Bilal Jawich)
Visiting French President Emmanuel Macron addresses a joint press conference with Lebanese President Joseph Aoun (not in the picture) at Baabda Palace in Baabda, Lebanon, on Jan. 17, 2025. Macron reaffirmed on Friday France's commitment to supporting the Lebanese army, announcing plans to establish a new training center for Lebanese soldiers. (Xinhua/Bilal Jawich)
Lebanese President Joseph Aoun (R) shakes hands with visiting French President Emmanuel Macron at a joint press conference at Baabda Palace in Baabda, Lebanon, on Jan. 17, 2025. Macron reaffirmed on Friday France's commitment to supporting the Lebanese army, announcing plans to establish a new training center for Lebanese soldiers. (Xinhua/Bilal Jawich)
Lebanese President Joseph Aoun (R, Rear) and visiting French President Emmanuel Macron (L, Rear) attend a joint press conference at Baabda Palace in Baabda, Lebanon, on Jan. 17, 2025. Macron reaffirmed on Friday France's commitment to supporting the Lebanese army, announcing plans to establish a new training center for Lebanese soldiers. (Xinhua/Bilal Jawich)