Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-02 05:27:00
The newly-appointed Israeli military chief Eyal Zamir is seen leaving his home in Moshav Ramot Hashavim, Israel, on Feb. 2, 2025. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense Minister Israel Katz have jointly decided to appoint Eyal Zamir as the new military chief, following the resignation of Herzi Halevi last week, according to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office on Saturday. (Gideon Markowicz/JINI via Xinhua)
JERUSALEM, Feb. 1 (Xinhua) -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense Minister Israel Katz have jointly decided to appoint Eyal Zamir as the new military chief, following the resignation of Herzi Halevi last week, according to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office on Saturday.
Zamir, 59, has served as the director general of the defense ministry for the past two years and will officially assume his new role on March 6.
With a 38-year career in the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), Zamir has held senior positions, including deputy chief of staff, commander of the Southern Command, and military secretary to the prime minister.
Halevi, in his resignation letter, admitted that the IDF had "failed in its mission to protect the citizens of Israel," when Hamas carried out a deadly attack on Israel.
Following the new appointment, Halevi said in an IDF statement, "I am confident that Zamir will lead the IDF forward in the face of the challenges ahead," adding that they will "complete a professional and high-quality transfer of command over the IDF" in the coming weeks. ■
The newly-appointed Israeli military chief Eyal Zamir (L) is seen leaving his home in Moshav Ramot Hashavim, Israel, on Feb. 2, 2025. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense Minister Israel Katz have jointly decided to appoint Eyal Zamir as the new military chief, following the resignation of Herzi Halevi last week, according to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office on Saturday. (Gideon Markowicz/JINI via Xinhua)