Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-05 15:06:46
Israeli soldiers are seen during a military raid in the West Bank city of Tulkarm, on Feb. 5, 2025. At least 5,000 Palestinian families have been forcibly displaced from Jenin and Tulkarm refugee camps in northern West Bank over the past two weeks, the Palestinian Authority said in a statement on Tuesday after a meeting. (Photo by Nidal Eshtayeh/Xinhua)
RAMALLAH, Feb. 5 (Xinhua) -- At least 5,000 Palestinian families have been forcibly displaced from Jenin and Tulkarm refugee camps in northern West Bank over the past two weeks, the Palestinian Authority said in a statement on Tuesday after a meeting.
The meeting was held in Ramallah, central West Bank, led by Palestinian Prime Minister Mohammad Mustafa and attended by representatives from various ministries and government agencies.
According to the statement, the meeting discussed ways to intensify joint efforts to enhance relief interventions in the northern West Bank.
It also noted an increase in home demolitions and widespread destruction of infrastructure and Palestinian properties.
On Jan. 21, the Israeli army launched a security operation named "Iron Wall" in the city of Jenin and other areas in the northern West Bank, claiming that it aimed to pursue "gunmen" and dismantle "terrorist infrastructure." ■
Israeli soldiers are seen during a military raid in the West Bank city of Tulkarm, on Feb. 5, 2025.
At least 5,000 Palestinian families have been forcibly displaced from Jenin and Tulkarm refugee camps in northern West Bank over the past two weeks, the Palestinian Authority said in a statement on Tuesday after a meeting. (Photo by Nidal Eshtayeh/Xinhua)
Israeli soldiers are seen during a military raid in the West Bank city of Tulkarm, on Feb. 5, 2025.
At least 5,000 Palestinian families have been forcibly displaced from Jenin and Tulkarm refugee camps in northern West Bank over the past two weeks, the Palestinian Authority said in a statement on Tuesday after a meeting. (Photo by Nidal Eshtayeh/Xinhua)