Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-03 23:19:45
A doctor examines a patient at a clinic in Ankara, Türkiye, Feb. 3, 2025. Türkiye is positioning itself as a leading medical tourism destination, aiming to boost revenues as more travelers seek affordable, high-quality healthcare services abroad, industry experts have said.(Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)
by Burak Akinci
ANKARA, Feb. 3 (Xinhua) -- Türkiye is positioning itself as a leading medical tourism destination, aiming to boost revenues as more travelers seek affordable, high-quality healthcare services abroad, industry experts have said.
Over the past decades, Türkiye has increased its share in the global medical tourism market. The country's healthcare facilities have seen substantial revenue growth, with earnings soaring from 203 million U.S. dollars in 2003 to 2.2 billion dollars in 2022, data from the Trade Ministry showed.
The International Health Services Inc., an official affiliate of the Turkish Health Ministry, reported that more than 670,000 foreign visitors traveled to Türkiye for medical treatment in 2021. The number surged by 88 percent in 2022, surpassing 1.25 million, and continued to grow in 2023, exceeding 1.8 million.
For 2024, Türkiye reportedly received 2 million health tourists generating 3 billion dollars in revenue, according to Aziz Ciga, chairman of a healthcare firm in Istanbul.
"The global health tourism sector is expanding each year, and Türkiye seeks a larger share of this booming industry," Ciga told Xinhua.
Türkiye boasts over 40 internationally accredited healthcare facilities, reinforcing its reputation as one of the top destinations for medical tourists worldwide.
"From hair transplants and cosmetic surgery to cancer treatments and organ transplants, Turkish healthcare facilities offer a broad range of high-quality medical services at competitive prices," Ciga said while warning about unsafe practices in unauthorized clinics, which pose risks to patients.
Sermet Canli, a health service provider in Ankara, said Türkiye is more attractive for health tourists primarily due to the affordability of its medical services compared to those in Western countries.
"The cost of surgery or dental procedures in Türkiye is typically one-third of what it would be in Europe, making Türkiye a more accessible option for many patients," he said.
With the influx of medical tourists, many Turkish hospitals have begun hiring multilingual staff to assist international patients with travel and accommodation arrangements.
To further boost Türkiye's medical tourism, industry observers highlighted the need for stronger collaboration between healthcare providers, industry stakeholders, and government institutions.
"Tour operators and travel agencies are increasingly designing packages that combine medical procedures with sightseeing, spa treatments, and wellness experiences," Hamit Kuk from the Association of Turkish Travel Agencies told Xinhua.
This fusion of medical and leisure tourism is creating new economic opportunities for local businesses, benefiting related industries, he said. ■
A doctor examines a patient at a clinic in Ankara, Türkiye, Feb. 3, 2025. Türkiye is positioning itself as a leading medical tourism destination, aiming to boost revenues as more travelers seek affordable, high-quality healthcare services abroad, industry experts have said. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)