Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-07 01:38:45
Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan (R) shakes hands with Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi at a joint press conference in Ankara, Türkiye, on Jan. 6, 2025. Fidan discussed with Safadi here on Monday the situation in Syria and its reconstruction. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)
ANKARA, Jan. 6 (Xinhua) -- Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan discussed with his Jordanian counterpart Ayman Safadi here on Monday the situation in Syria and its reconstruction.
The two officials discussed steps to "revive" Syria, especially in the sectors of transport, agriculture, and food security, and formulated a road map, Fidan told a joint press conference attended by Safadi in Ankara.
The Turkish foreign minister said that there has been close coordination with Safadi and other Jordanian officials since the fall of Bashar al-Assad's government in Syria on Dec. 8, 2024.
On counterterrorism efforts, Fidan stressed the importance of preventing a resurgence of the Islamic State.
Fidan also reiterated Türkiye's demand for the Syrian Kurdish People's Protection Units (YPG) to disarm.
"Conditions in Syria have changed. We believe it's only a matter of time before the YPG is eliminated," he said.
Safadi echoed Türkiye's security concerns, affirming Jordan's support for Ankara's stance against the YPG, which Türkiye considers as the Syrian branch of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
He also voiced opposition to foreign interference in Syria, stating, "We reject any attacks on Syria's independence and sovereignty. The security and stability of Syria are directly tied to the security of neighboring countries like Jordan and Türkiye."
Safadi also criticized Israel's attacks on Syrian territories, calling them "dangerous and unjust." ■
Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan (R) and Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi attend a joint press conference in Ankara, Türkiye, on Jan. 6, 2025. Fidan discussed with Safadi here on Monday the situation in Syria and its reconstruction. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)