Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-25 20:24:15
Displaced Palestinians who want to be allowed to return to their houses in the north of the Gaza Strip wait at the beach of al-Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza Strip, on Jan. 25, 2025. Israeli Prime Minister's Office said in a statement on Saturday that Israel will not allow Palestinian residents to return to their homes in the northern Gaza Strip for the time being. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua)
JERUSALEM/GAZA, Jan. 25 (Xinhua) -- Israeli Prime Minister's Office said in a statement on Saturday that Israel will not allow Palestinian residents to return to their homes in the northern Gaza Strip for the time being.
The statement noted that the ban will apply until the release of Israeli civilian Arbel Yehud, who was scheduled to be freed on Saturday but was not among the four Israelis released by Hamas, is arranged.
Many residents of the northern Gaza Strip were forced to leave their homes during the fighting and moved to temporary places in the south.
They are supposed to return to their homes according to the ceasefire-hostage deal between Israel and Hamas.
The statement mentioned that Yehud's release in the second swap of Israeli hostages and Palestinian prisoners was part of the deal that went into effect last week.
Earlier on Saturday, Hamas released the four female Israeli soldiers Liri Albag, Karina Ariev, Daniella Gilboa, and Naama Levy, and they arrived at an Israeli military camp near the Gaza border in good health.
Meanwhile, a senior official of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad movement revealed that the Israeli hostage Yehud is alive and will be released next Saturday. ■
Displaced Palestinians who want to be allowed to return to their houses in the north of the Gaza Strip wait at the beach of al-Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza Strip, on Jan. 25, 2025. Israeli Prime Minister's Office said in a statement on Saturday that Israel will not allow Palestinian residents to return to their homes in the northern Gaza Strip for the time being. (Photo by Rizek Abdeljawad/Xinhua)