Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-04 00:09:00
Photo taken on Feb. 3, 2025 shows the wreckage of a vehicle at the site of a car bombing in Manbij, Syria. The Syrian interim government on Monday condemned the deadly car bombing that struck the northern city of Manbij in the morning, vowing to hold those responsible accountable. The "terrorist" attack targeted civilians, leaving at least 20 dead and dozens injured, according to a statement from the Syrian presidency. (Xinhua)
DAMASCUS, Feb. 3 (Xinhua) -- The Syrian interim government on Monday condemned the deadly car bombing that struck the northern city of Manbij in the morning, vowing to hold those responsible accountable.
The "terrorist" attack targeted civilians, leaving at least 20 dead and dozens injured, according to a statement from the Syrian presidency.
"This crime will not go unpunished, and the perpetrators will face the harshest consequences as a lesson to anyone who dares to tamper with Syria's security or harm its people," said the government.
The explosion, which took place on a main road on the outskirts of Manbij in Aleppo province, marks the deadliest attack in the region since the downfall of former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in December 2024.
The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported the victims were mostly agricultural workers traveling in a truck when an explosive-laden vehicle detonated nearby.
The observatory noted the region has witnessed intense clashes between Turkish-backed factions and the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces, which have resulted in nearly 600 deaths since last December.
Tensions in this strategic area near the Turkish border remain high as competing factions vie for control in northern Syria.
There has been no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack. ■
People are seen near the wreckage of a vehicle at the site of a car bombing in Manbij, Syria, on Feb. 3, 2025. The Syrian interim government on Monday condemned the deadly car bombing that struck the northern city of Manbij in the morning, vowing to hold those responsible accountable. The "terrorist" attack targeted civilians, leaving at least 20 dead and dozens injured, according to a statement from the Syrian presidency. (Xinhua)
Photo taken on Feb. 3, 2025 shows the wreckage of a vehicle at the site of a car bombing in Manbij, Syria. The Syrian interim government on Monday condemned the deadly car bombing that struck the northern city of Manbij in the morning, vowing to hold those responsible accountable. The "terrorist" attack targeted civilians, leaving at least 20 dead and dozens injured, according to a statement from the Syrian presidency. (Xinhua)
Photo taken on Feb. 3, 2025 shows the wreckage of a vehicle at the site of a car bombing in Manbij, Syria. The Syrian interim government on Monday condemned the deadly car bombing that struck the northern city of Manbij in the morning, vowing to hold those responsible accountable. The "terrorist" attack targeted civilians, leaving at least 20 dead and dozens injured, according to a statement from the Syrian presidency. (Xinhua)