Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-14 05:11:00
Soldiers load relief supplies onto a plane at Abdullah al-Mubarak Air Base in Kuwait City, Kuwait, Jan. 13, 2025. Kuwait dispatched another aid plane to Syria on Monday, carrying 33 tonnes of relief and medical supplies to assist Syria's "most vulnerable populations," state news agency KUNA reported. The plane departed from Abdullah al-Mubarak Air Base in Kuwait City and landed at Damascus International Airport, where it was received by Syrian officials, according to the report. The shipment was coordinated by Kuwait's Health Ministry and the Kuwait Red Crescent Society. (Photo by Asad/Xinhua)
KUWAIT CITY, Jan. 13 (Xinhua) -- Kuwait dispatched another aid plane to Syria on Monday, carrying 33 tonnes of relief and medical supplies to assist Syria's "most vulnerable populations," state news agency KUNA reported.
The plane departed from Abdullah al-Mubarak Air Base in Kuwait City and landed at Damascus International Airport, where it was received by Syrian officials, according to the report. The shipment was coordinated by Kuwait's Health Ministry and the Kuwait Red Crescent Society.
This marks Kuwait's second aid delivery to Syria since the swift fall of former President Bashar al-Assad's government in December 2024. The first shipment, sent on Dec. 30, included 20 tonnes of food, tents, and blankets to address urgent humanitarian needs in the war-torn country. ■
Relief supplies are being loaded onto a plane at Abdullah al-Mubarak Air Base in Kuwait City, Kuwait, Jan. 13, 2025. Kuwait dispatched another aid plane to Syria on Monday, carrying 33 tonnes of relief and medical supplies to assist Syria's "most vulnerable populations," state news agency KUNA reported.
The plane departed from Abdullah al-Mubarak Air Base in Kuwait City and landed at Damascus International Airport, where it was received by Syrian officials, according to the report. The shipment was coordinated by Kuwait's Health Ministry and the Kuwait Red Crescent Society. (Photo by Asad/Xinhua)
This photo shows relief supplies in a plane at Abdullah al-Mubarak Air Base in Kuwait City, Kuwait, Jan. 13, 2025. Kuwait dispatched another aid plane to Syria on Monday, carrying 33 tonnes of relief and medical supplies to assist Syria's "most vulnerable populations," state news agency KUNA reported.
The plane departed from Abdullah al-Mubarak Air Base in Kuwait City and landed at Damascus International Airport, where it was received by Syrian officials, according to the report. The shipment was coordinated by Kuwait's Health Ministry and the Kuwait Red Crescent Society. (Photo by Asad/Xinhua)
Soldiers load relief supplies onto a plane at Abdullah al-Mubarak Air Base in Kuwait City, Kuwait, Jan. 13, 2025. Kuwait dispatched another aid plane to Syria on Monday, carrying 33 tonnes of relief and medical supplies to assist Syria's "most vulnerable populations," state news agency KUNA reported.
The plane departed from Abdullah al-Mubarak Air Base in Kuwait City and landed at Damascus International Airport, where it was received by Syrian officials, according to the report. The shipment was coordinated by Kuwait's Health Ministry and the Kuwait Red Crescent Society. (Photo by Asad/Xinhua)
 