Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-08 21:33:00
People mourn victims killed in an Israeli airstrike in the town of Tamoun, south of the city of Tubas in the northern West Bank, Jan. 8, 2025. Three Palestinians, including two children, were killed in an Israeli airstrike in the town of Tamoun, south of the city of Tubas in the northern West Bank, Palestinian and Israeli sources said on Wednesday. (Photo by Nidal Eshtayeh/Xinhua)
RAMALLAH, Jan. 8 (Xinhua) -- Three Palestinians, including two children, were killed in an Israeli airstrike on the town of Tamoun, south of the city of Tubas in the northern West Bank, Palestinian and Israeli sources said on Wednesday.
Palestinian security sources told Xinhua that an Israeli drone bombed a group of young men in the town, killing the three people.
The Israeli army confirmed in a brief statement that an air force plane targeted a group in the Tamoun area.
The Israeli state-owned Kan TV reported that the three Palestinians were trying to plant explosive devices.
This is the second airstrike on the town within 24 hours. Two other Palestinians were killed in an Israeli drone strike on Tuesday morning.
The developments came after an armed attack on Monday killed three Israelis near the settlement of Kedumim in the northern West Bank.
Cities, villages and camps in the West Bank have been witnessing escalating tensions since Oct. 7, 2023, which has led to the killing of more than 800 Palestinians by Israeli gunfire and shelling, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health. ■
People mourn victims killed in an Israeli airstrike in the town of Tamoun, south of the city of Tubas in the northern West Bank, Jan. 8, 2025.
Three Palestinians, including two children, were killed in an Israeli airstrike in the town of Tamoun, south of the city of Tubas in the northern West Bank, Palestinian and Israeli sources said on Wednesday. (Photo by Nidal Eshtayeh/Xinhua)
Palestinians are seen at the site of an Israeli airstrike in the town of Tamoun, south of the city of Tubas in the northern West Bank, Jan. 8, 2025.
Three Palestinians, including two children, were killed in an Israeli airstrike in the town of Tamoun, south of the city of Tubas in the northern West Bank, Palestinian and Israeli sources said on Wednesday. (Photo by Nidal Eshtayeh/Xinhua)
People mourn victims killed in an Israeli airstrike in the town of Tamoun, south of the city of Tubas in the northern West Bank, Jan. 8, 2025.
Three Palestinians, including two children, were killed in an Israeli airstrike in the town of Tamoun, south of the city of Tubas in the northern West Bank, Palestinian and Israeli sources said on Wednesday. (Photo by Nidal Eshtayeh/Xinhua)