Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-07 22:34:00
Vehicles of Israeli forces are seen on a street during an Israeli operation in Far'a refugee camp, south of the West Bank City of Tubas, on Jan. 7, 2025. Palestinian sources said Israeli forces launched a large-scale operation at dawn in the Far'a refugee camp and surrounding areas in Tubas on Tuesday. (Photo by Nidal Eshtayeh/Xinhua)
RAMALLAH, Jan. 7 (Xinhua) -- Three Palestinians were killed Tuesday by Israeli strikes in the West Bank, Palestinian sources said.
The Palestinian Red Crescent Society reported that an 18-year-old was killed in an Israeli drone strike in the town of Tamoun, located in the northern West Bank governorate of Tubas.
A second drone strike targeted a group of young men in the same area, the organization said, adding that Israeli forces blocked medics from accessing the site.
Tubas Governor Ahmad al-Asaad told Xinhua that a second Palestinian, whose identity has yet to be confirmed, was killed in the second strike, adding that Israeli forces removed the body from the scene.
In a statement, the Israeli military said its air force had targeted an "armed group" in Tamoun but provided no additional details.
In a separate incident in the northern West Bank town of Talluza, local sources said Israeli forces fatally shot Jaafar Dababsa, 40, during a raid on his home. Eyewitnesses said Dababsa was killed after troops stormed his residence.
Palestinian sources said Israeli forces launched a large-scale operation at dawn in the Far'a refugee camp and surrounding areas in Tubas, deploying drones and bulldozers. Bulldozers reportedly destroyed infrastructure in the camp, while soldiers raided villages and towns, carrying out arrests and causing extensive property damage.
The violence comes a day after a shooting in the northern West Bank killed three Israelis. In recent months, attacks by Israeli settlers on Palestinian villages, including arson and killings, have surged, heightening tensions in the region. ■
Vehicles of Israeli forces are seen on a street during an Israeli operation in Far'a refugee camp, south of the West Bank City of Tubas, on Jan. 7, 2025. Palestinian sources said Israeli forces launched a large-scale operation at dawn in the Far'a refugee camp and surrounding areas in Tubas on Tuesday. (Photo by Nidal Eshtayeh/Xinhua)