Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-12 23:08:30
RAMALLAH, Feb. 12 (Xinhua) -- A Palestinian was killed and an Israeli soldier injured on Wednesday in clashes between the Israeli army and Palestinian fighters during an Israeli military operation in northern West Bank, according to Palestinian and Israeli sources.
Palestinian security sources told Xinhua that Khaled Amer, a young man from the town of Allar in Tulkarm city, was killed during armed clashes with Israeli army forces in the Nur Shams refugee camp east of Tulkarm.
Meanwhile, the Israeli army reported in a brief statement that a soldier was moderately injured in the camp, without giving further details about the incident.
Also on Wednesday, the Qassam Brigades, the military wing of Hamas, announced that it, along with the Al-Quds Brigades, the military wing of the Islamic Jihad movement, managed to carry out a tight ambush and create casualties on an Israeli infantry force in the Al-Manshiya neighborhood in Nur Shams.
The developments came at a time when local sources and eyewitnesses reported that Israeli forces stormed the Al-Ayada neighborhood mosque and called on residents via loudspeakers to leave the camp, which has been subjected to a large-scale military operation for four days.
Israeli forces deployed vehicles and infantry patrols at the entrances to the camp and its neighborhoods amidst the firing of live ammunition, sound bombs, and tear gas, which caused a state of fear among residents, according to the sources and eyewitnesses.
Issa Ahmed, 36, said the Israeli army is carrying out extensive demolition operations of homes, shops, and infrastructure, the largest in years.
Ahmed told Xinhua that Israeli forces raid residential homes, destroy their contents, beat young men, and subject them to field investigations.
Ahmed, who was able to leave the camp with his wife and three children, considered the situation inside the camp dangerous and the movement in it difficult, which prompted him to flee the camp.
The Israeli army began a military operation on the city of Tulkarm and its camps, Nour Shams and Tulkarm, 17 days ago, leaving eight dead and dozens injured and arrested, according to Palestinian institutions.
In addition, the Popular Committee for Services of Al-Fara'a refugee camp in Tubas reported that the Israeli army withdrew completely after 11 days of "aggression and siege" from the camp.
"There is great destruction in the camp, the infrastructure has been destroyed, and houses have been blown up, and there are houses that are not fit for habitation," the committee said in a statement, noting that the camp has become without streets after they were destroyed.
The West Bank has been witnessing escalating tension since Oct. 7, 2023, which has led to the killing of more than 800 Palestinians by Israeli bullets and shelling, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health. ■