Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-12 05:43:30
People mourn during the funeral of a Palestinian youth in the town of Sa'ir, northeast of Hebron city in the southern West Bank, Feb. 12, 2025. A Palestinian youth was shot dead by the Israeli army in the city of Hebron in southern West Bank on Tuesday, according to Palestinian medical sources.
The anonymous sources told Xinhua that 19-year-old Abdullah Farroukh succumbed to severe wounds after being shot by the Israeli army in the town of Sa'ir, northeast of Hebron. (Photo by Mamoun Wazwaz/Xinhua)
RAMALLAH, Feb. 11 (Xinhua) -- Israeli authorities have begun building a new settlement on Bethlehem's land in the southern West Bank, according to the Colonization and Wall Resistance Commission of the Palestine Liberation Organization on Tuesday.
The commission's head, Muayyad Shaaban, said the settlement is being constructed in the village of Battir, with Israel allocating 120 dunams (120,000 square meters) for the project. He warned that the move aims to further separate Bethlehem from Jerusalem, threatening the geographic continuity of the West Bank.
Shaaban accused Israel of imposing new facts on the ground to fragment Palestinian land and prevent the establishment of a Palestinian state.
Also on Tuesday, a Palestinian youth was shot dead by the Israeli army in the city of Hebron in southern West Bank, according to Palestinian medical sources.
The anonymous sources told Xinhua that 19-year-old Abdullah Farroukh succumbed to severe wounds after being shot by the Israeli army in the town of Sa'ir, northeast of Hebron.
The sources added that two others were injured by Israeli gunfire, including a 10-year-old girl who sustained moderate injuries. Both the injured were transferred to Al-Ahli Hospital in the city.
There has been no Israeli comment on the incident so far.
Meanwhile, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) said that Israel has displaced approximately 40,000 Palestinians from refugee camps in the northern West Bank, warning that the forced displacement of Palestinian communities is escalating at "an alarming rate." ■
People mourn during the funeral of a Palestinian youth in the town of Sa'ir, northeast of Hebron city in the southern West Bank, Feb. 12, 2025. A Palestinian youth was shot dead by the Israeli army in the city of Hebron in southern West Bank on Tuesday, according to Palestinian medical sources.
The anonymous sources told Xinhua that 19-year-old Abdullah Farroukh succumbed to severe wounds after being shot by the Israeli army in the town of Sa'ir, northeast of Hebron. (Photo by Mamoun Wazwaz/Xinhua)
A woman mourns during the funeral of a Palestinian youth in the town of Sa'ir, northeast of Hebron city in the southern West Bank, Feb. 12, 2025. A Palestinian youth was shot dead by the Israeli army in the city of Hebron in southern West Bank on Tuesday, according to Palestinian medical sources.
The anonymous sources told Xinhua that 19-year-old Abdullah Farroukh succumbed to severe wounds after being shot by the Israeli army in the town of Sa'ir, northeast of Hebron. (Photo by Mamoun Wazwaz/Xinhua)