Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-25 20:02:45
This photo taken on Jan. 25, 2025 shows a helicopter carrying released hostages arriving at a medical center in Petah Tikva, Israel. Four female Israeli soldier hostages held in Gaza were transferred to the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) and the Israel Security Agency (ISA) on Saturday and crossed the border into Israel, the IDF and the ISA said in a joint statement. (JINI via Xinhua)
JERUSALEM/GAZA, Jan. 25 (Xinhua) -- Four female Israeli soldier hostages held in Gaza were transferred to the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) and the Israel Security Agency (ISA) on Saturday and crossed the border into Israel, the IDF and the ISA said in a joint statement.
Liri Albag, Karina Ariev, Daniella Gilboa, and Naama Levy, army observers aged between 19 and 20, were abducted by Hamas from the Israeli army's surveillance base at Nahal Oz on Oct. 7, 2023, near the Gaza Strip border.
"The four returning hostages were accompanied by IDF special forces and ISA forces on their return to Israeli territory, where they will undergo an initial medical assessment," the statement reads.
The four are scheduled to meet their families at the IDF's Reim camp, near the Gaza Strip border, and from there they will be transferred by helicopter to Beilinson Hospital in central Israel.
The transfer of the four soldiers from Hamas to the Red Cross in Gaza was broadcast live. The four appeared to be in good health, walking and smiling.
The hostage release is part of the second phase of a prisoner-hostage exchange between Hamas and Israel, implemented under the initial terms of a ceasefire agreement.
The first stage of the six-week ceasefire took effect on Jan. 19.
The ceasefire agreement between Hamas and Israel was reached after 15 months of intense fighting, as a result of negotiations mediated by Egypt, Qatar and the United States. ■
This photo taken on Jan. 25, 2025 shows a helicopter carrying released hostages arriving at a medical center in Petah Tikva, Israel. Four female Israeli soldier hostages held in Gaza were transferred to the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) and the Israel Security Agency (ISA) on Saturday and crossed the border into Israel, the IDF and the ISA said in a joint statement. (JINI via Xinhua)
Four Israeli hostages are seen during the ceremony of their release in Palestine Square in Gaza City on Jan. 25, 2025.
Four female Israeli soldier hostages held in Gaza were transferred to the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) and the Israel Security Agency (ISA) on Saturday and crossed the border into Israel, the IDF and the ISA said in a joint statement. (Photo by Adul Rahman Salama/Xinhua)