Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-12 15:13:47
JERUSALEM, Feb. 12 (Xinhua) -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Tuesday that the ceasefire with Hamas would end "if Hamas does not return our hostages by noon on Saturday."
"The IDF (Israel Defense Forces) will resume intense fighting until Hamas is decisively defeated," Netanyahu said in a video statement, noting the move was unanimously approved by his Cabinet ministers during a four-hour meeting earlier in the day.
Netanyahu's remarks came a day after Hamas announced that the handover of hostages scheduled for Saturday would be postponed until further notice.
Following Netanyahu's statement, Hamas said it remained committed to the ceasefire deal as long as Israel abides by it. Israel "bears full responsibility for any complications or delays," the group said in a statement.
Hamas' decision to delay this weekend's scheduled release prompted U.S. President Donald Trump to propose that Israel cancel the agreement altogether and "let hell break out" unless "all of the hostages" were returned by Saturday.
Israel's entire cabinet "welcomed President Trump's demand," said Netanyahu.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called early Tuesday to "avoid at all costs the resumption of hostilities in Gaza that would lead to an immense tragedy."
"Both sides must fully abide by their commitments in the cease-fire agreement and resume serious negotiations in Doha for the second phase," Guterres said on social media platform X.
RISING TENSIONS
On Monday, Hamas accused Israel of violating the three-week-old ceasefire deal, including by blocking vital humanitarian aid.
The handover of the hostages will be postponed until Israel adheres to the deal and compensates retroactively for past violations, said Abu Obeida, spokesman for Hamas' armed wing, the Qassam Brigades.
In response, Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said Monday in a statement that Hamas' announcement is "a complete violation of the Gaza ceasefire and hostage release deal."
Katz said he had ordered the IDF to "prepare at the highest level of readiness for any possible scenario in Gaza and to defend the communities near the enclave."
On Feb. 4, Trump announced a controversial plan to take over the Gaza Strip and relocate Palestinians from the enclave during a joint press conference with Netanyahu in Washington.
Two days later, Netanyahu said during an interview that "Saudis can establish a Palestinian state in Saudi Arabia; they have plenty of land there."
Many Arab and Muslim countries have voiced their opposition to the idea of displacing the Gazans from their homeland.
The ceasefire, which took effect on Jan. 19 after 15 months of war, is structured in three six-week phases. Thirty-three Israeli hostages and about 2,000 Palestinian detainees are expected to be released during the first phase.
To date, 21 hostages -- 16 Israelis and five Thai nationals -- have been released in exchange for hundreds of Palestinian prisoners.
Despite the ceasefire, violence has continued. Since Jan. 19, at least 118 Palestinians have been killed and 822 injured in Gaza, local health ministry said on Tuesday. ■