Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-25 04:52:00
This drone photo taken on Jan. 24, 2025 shows emergency team members conducting search and rescue after a three-story building collapsed in Konya's Selcuklu district, Türkiye. A three-story building collapsed on Friday in the Selcuklu district of Türkiye's central Konya province, according to Turkish authorities. Two people have been rescued from the rubble with injuries, while rescue teams continue to reach five others believed to be trapped, according to Konya Governor Ibrahim Akin. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)
ANKARA, Jan. 24 (Xinhua) -- A three-story building collapsed on Friday in the Selcuklu district of Türkiye's central Konya province, according to Turkish authorities.
Two people have been rescued from the rubble with injuries, while rescue teams continue to reach five others believed to be trapped, according to Konya Governor Ibrahim Akin.
Turkish Vice President Cevdet Yilmaz, who is currently in Konya, said that the building had not undergone the urban renewal process initiated after 1994, the year the building was licensed.
He added that the cause of the collapse is still under investigation.
The collapsed building contained 14 apartments and seven shops, according to Yilmaz. ■
This aerial drone photo taken on Jan. 24, 2025 shows emergency team members conducting search and rescue after a three-story building collapsed in Konya's Selcuklu district, Türkiye. A three-story building collapsed on Friday in the Selcuklu district of Türkiye's central Konya province, according to Turkish authorities.
Two people have been rescued from the rubble with injuries, while rescue teams continue to reach five others believed to be trapped, according to Konya Governor Ibrahim Akin. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)
This aerial drone photo taken on Jan. 24, 2025 shows emergency team members conducting search and rescue after a three-story building collapsed in Konya's Selcuklu district, Türkiye. A three-story building collapsed on Friday in the Selcuklu district of Türkiye's central Konya province, according to Turkish authorities.
Two people have been rescued from the rubble with injuries, while rescue teams continue to reach five others believed to be trapped, according to Konya Governor Ibrahim Akin. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)
This drone photo taken on Jan. 24, 2025 shows emergency team members conducting search and rescue after a three-story building collapsed in Konya's Selcuklu district, Türkiye. A three-story building collapsed on Friday in the Selcuklu district of Türkiye's central Konya province, according to Turkish authorities.
Two people have been rescued from the rubble with injuries, while rescue teams continue to reach five others believed to be trapped, according to Konya Governor Ibrahim Akin. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)