Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-11 23:51:00
A Lebanese army soldier is seen after the withdrawal of Israeli army in Tayr Harfa, Lebanon, on Jan. 13, 2024. The Lebanese army announced on Saturday that its units have completed their deployment in several towns and villages in southern Lebanon's western and central sectors, in parallel with the Israeli army's withdrawal. (Photo by Ali Hashisho/Xinhua)
BEIRUT, Jan. 11 (Xinhua) -- The Lebanese army announced on Saturday that its units have completed their deployment in several towns and villages in southern Lebanon's western and central sectors, in parallel with the Israeli army's withdrawal.
"The army units are completing their deployment in Ras al-Naqoura, Tyre, and villages in the western sector, including Alma al-Shaab, al-Dhahira, Aitaroun, Tayr Harfa, Majdel Zoun, al-Salehni, al-Qaouzah, and Bint Jbeil, following the Israeli enemy's withdrawal," the army command said in a statement.
"The Lebanese army is working to strengthen its deployment and secure important points, in coordination with the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) and the five-member committee supervising the ceasefire agreement (Mechanism)," the army added.
A ceasefire agreement between Israel and Hezbollah came into effect on Nov. 27, 2024, bringing an end to the confrontations that erupted between the two sides on Oct. 8, 2023.
The agreement stipulates that Israel withdraw from Lebanese territory within 60 days, with the Lebanese army deploying along the Lebanese-Israeli border and in the southern region, assuming security responsibilities and preventing any presence of weapons or militants in the area. ■
A Lebanese army soldier is seen after the withdrawal of Israeli army in Tayr Harfa, Lebanon, on Jan. 13, 2024. The Lebanese army announced on Saturday that its units have completed their deployment in several towns and villages in southern Lebanon's western and central sectors, in parallel with the Israeli army's withdrawal. (Photo by Ali Hashisho/Xinhua)
A Lebanese army soldier is seen after the withdrawal of Israeli army in Tayr Harfa, Lebanon, on Jan. 13, 2024. The Lebanese army announced on Saturday that its units have completed their deployment in several towns and villages in southern Lebanon's western and central sectors, in parallel with the Israeli army's withdrawal. (Photo by Ali Hashisho/Xinhua)