Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-16 04:34:00
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres speaks during a press conference at the UN headquarters in New York, Jan. 15, 2025. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Wednesday welcomed the Gaza ceasefire-for-hostages deal between Israel and Hamas, urging all parties to ensure the full implementation of the deal. (Photo by William M. Reilly/Xinhua)
UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 15 (Xinhua) -- UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Wednesday welcomed the Gaza ceasefire-for-hostages deal between Israel and Hamas, urging all parties to ensure the full implementation of the deal.
In a statement, Guterres commended the mediators, Egypt, Qatar, and the United States, for their dedicated efforts in brokering this deal, adding, "Their unwavering commitment to finding a diplomatic solution has been critical in achieving this breakthrough."
The UN chief called on all parties to uphold their commitments and ensure this deal is fully implemented.
"Our priority must be to ease the tremendous suffering caused by this conflict," he said, noting the United Nations stands ready to support the implementation of this deal and scale up the delivery of sustained humanitarian relief to Palestinians.
"It is imperative that this ceasefire removes the significant security and political obstacles to delivering aid across Gaza so that we can support a major increase in urgent lifesaving humanitarian support. The humanitarian situation is at catastrophic levels," Guterres said, calling on all parties to facilitate the rapid, unhindered, and safe humanitarian relief for all civilians in need.
"This deal is a critical first step, but we must mobilize all efforts to also advance broader goals, including the preservation of the unity, contiguity, and integrity of the Occupied Palestinian Territory. Palestinian unity is essential for achieving lasting peace and stability, and I emphasize that unified Palestinian governance must remain a top priority," Guterres said.
The UN chief urged the parties and all relevant partners to seize this opportunity to establish a credible political path to a better future for Palestinians, Israelis, and the broader region, stressing "Only through a viable two-state solution can the aspirations of both peoples be fulfilled."
Guterres underscored that the United Nations is steadfast in its commitment to supporting all efforts that promote peace, stability, and a more hopeful future for the people of Palestine and Israel, and across the region. ■