Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-05 04:56:00
ANKARA, Feb. 4 (Xinhua) -- Security issues are the key to the future development of Türkiye-Syria ties, experts said as Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa visited Ankara and held talks with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Tuesday.
At a joint press conference after the talks, Erdogan and al-Sharaa reaffirmed their commitment to fully restoring bilateral relations and enhancing cooperation.
Erdogan emphasized Türkiye's commitment to strengthening security in Syria, particularly by cracking down on terrorist groups such as the Islamic State and the Kurdish People's Protection Units (YPG), which Türkiye views as the Syrian branch of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party.
"By acting in solidarity with Syria, I believe we will fully establish a climate of peace and security in our shared region, free from terrorism," Erdogan said.
Al-Sharaa, for his part, expressed hope for deeper strategic cooperation with Türkiye, which he said would benefit both countries.
He also stressed the importance of restoring commercial ties between the two nations and invited Erdogan to visit Damascus soon.
Ali Oguz Dirioz, an associate professor of international relations at Ankara's TOBB University of Economics and Technology, told Xinhua that security concerns are at the forefront of Türkiye's agenda in its evolving relationship with Syria.
"There is significant support (from Türkiye) for stabilizing Syria by providing logistical, humanitarian, and diplomatic assistance to the caretaker government in Damascus, with the overarching goal of ensuring stability across the country," he said, adding, "Ankara wants to see a politically stable Syria capable of securing its borders."
According to Dirioz, the main challenge for the new Syrian administration led by al-Sharaa will be rebuilding a national army and tackling armed dissident groups. "The YPG issue must be resolved for Türkiye-Syria relations to move forward."
"Ankara envisions a Syria that does not export terrorism, pose a threat to its neighbors, or undermine regional stability. It seeks a Syria that represents its diverse population," Oytun Orhan, a senior researcher at Ankara's Center for Middle Eastern Strategic Studies, told Xinhua.
"Türkiye wants U.S. President Donald Trump to withdraw support for the YPG, a demand Ankara is very firm on," Orhan said, warning that the Kurdish issue, if remaining unresolved, could become a point of tension in future Türkiye-Syria relations.
Türkiye is seeking active cooperation with Syria, willing to act as a security partner and offering its military expertise, said Batu Coskun, a non-resident fellow at the United Arab Emirates-based TRENDS Research and Advisory.
"Türkiye is working toward a strategic security partnership with Damascus to weaken Kurdish forces and strengthen Syrian national sovereignty," Coskun told Xinhua.
Since 2016, Turkish forces have carried out several cross-border operations in northern Syria in order to create a YPG-free zone along Türkiye's border with the neighboring country.
After al-Sharaa became Syria's de facto leader following an offensive by his group overthrowing the former government in December last year, Ankara said it would continue military activity in northern Syria until Kurdish fighters fully "disarm." ■