Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-16 07:21:15
Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan (R) and Syria's interim Foreign Minister Asaad Al-Shaibani attend a joint press conference in Ankara, Türkiye, on Jan. 15, 2025. Syria's interim Foreign Minister Asaad Al-Shaibani met with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan on Wednesday on his first official visit to Türkiye. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)
ANKARA, Jan. 15 (Xinhua) -- Syria's interim Foreign Minister Asaad Al-Shaibani met with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan on Wednesday on his first official visit to Türkiye.
The meeting between Erdogan and Al-Shaibani addressed the most recent situation in Syria and steps to be taken to preserve the country's territorial integrity, Türkiye's Communications Directorate said in a statement on the social media platform X.
According to the directorate, Erdogan said that "Türkiye will support meeting the urgent needs of the brotherly Syrian people and the efforts to rebuild the country," emphasizing the importance of lifting international sanctions on Syria.
Erdogan also underscored that there is no room for terrorist organizations in Syria's future, the statement added.
In a joint press conference following the meeting with Al-Shaibani, Fidan said "the international community could support Syria to rebuild state institutions and build capacity," calling for the removal of sanctions "to facilitate the provision of basic public services and accelerate normalization."
"This will create conditions enabling millions of Syrians to return home," the Turkish minister said.
Fidan also reaffirmed Ankara's commitment to aiding the fight against terrorism, including operational support against the Islamic State (IS), emphasizing that regional cooperation is vital.
"We have already taken steps to assist and are prepared to help manage camps and prisons housing IS detainees," he added.
He also reiterated Türkiye's stance against the fragmentation of Syria. "We will never consent to the division of Syria. There is no place for terror in the region's future."
The Turkish minister also announced that Türkiye's consulate in Aleppo would reopen on Jan. 20.
Al-Shaibani, for his part, described the visit as a turning point for Turkish-Syrian relations, saying "Türkiye and Syria are writing a new history based on brotherhood."
He underscored the importance of maintaining Syria's territorial integrity and the central government's control over all areas. "We believe Syria's northeastern regions must not pose a threat to Türkiye and should be unified under our central governance," Al-Shaibani said.
Calling on the international community and neighboring countries for support, Al-Shaibani said, "Syria urgently needs assistance for its reconstruction and the establishment of educational institutions. With brotherly cooperation, we can restore dignity and normalcy to the Syrian people."
Türkiye has voiced its commitment to Syria's post-conflict reconstruction, with Turkish officials signaling their willingness to provide logistical support, technical expertise, and investment in key sectors such as construction, agriculture, and energy. ■
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (R) shakes hands with Syria's interim Foreign Minister Asaad Al-Shaibani during their meeting in Ankara, Türkiye, on Jan. 15, 2025. Syria's interim Foreign Minister Asaad Al-Shaibani met with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan on Wednesday on his first official visit to Türkiye. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)