Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-31 05:21:15
DOHA, Jan. 30 (Xinhua) -- Qatar's Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, who arrived in Damascus for a visit earlier on Thursday, reaffirmed his country's unwavering support for Syria's unity, sovereignty and independence.
According to a statement from the Emiri Diwan, the administrative office of the emir, Al Thani met with Syria's interim President Ahmed al-Sharaa on the latest developments in Syria, ways to strengthen bilateral relations, and regional and international issues of mutual interest.
Al Thani stressed the need for a government that represents all segments of Syrian society for the further stabilization, reconstruction, and sustainable development of Syria, said the statement.
He reiterated Qatar's commitment to supporting the Syrian people in their pursuit of unity, justice, and freedom.
For his part, al-Sharaa thanked Qatar for its steadfast stance and continued support, affirming that the coming phase will witness strategic cooperation between the two sides across various sectors.
Later in the day, Al Thani wrote on social media platform X that the meeting was "filled with positivity and optimism for Syria's bright future and strengthening of relations between our two brotherly nations."
Al Thani's visit to Damascus, the first by an Arab leader since a change in Syria's government last December, comes as Syria's interim administration seeks to rebuild ties with regional states, following years of isolation during the country's civil conflict.
It follows meetings between Syrian and Qatari officials, including a trip to Damascus by Qatari Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani earlier this month.
Also on Thursday, Qatar's prime minister and foreign minister met with visiting Iranian Foreign Minister Seyed Abbas Araghchi to discuss bilateral relations and the latest developments in Syria, reiterating Doha's efforts to resolve regional conflicts and emphasizing cooperation with regional partners to promote stability and peace. ■