Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-23 01:07:45
ADEN, Yemen, Jan. 22 (Xinhua) -- The UN Special Envoy for Yemen Hans Grundberg on Wednesday welcomed the release of the Galaxy Leader vessel's crew, who had been held by Yemen's Houthi group for over a year.
The Houthi group announced the release of the 25 crew members earlier in the day, saying the move was coordinated with Hamas and mediated by Oman as part of broader support for the Gaza ceasefire agreement between Hamas and Israel, according to Houthi-run al-Masirah TV. Houthi leader Abdulmalik al-Houthi directed their release, after they had been held since the capture of their vessel in November 2023.
"The release of the Galaxy Leader crew is heartwarming news that puts an end to the arbitrary detention and separation that they and their families endured for more than a year," Grundberg stated, urging the Houthis to "continue these positive steps on all fronts, including ending all maritime attacks."
The envoy specifically commended Oman for its "determined and tireless efforts" in securing the crew's release.
The crew's detention began when Houthi fighters boarded the vessel via military helicopter in international waters off Yemen's Hodeidah port on Nov. 19, 2023. While the crew has been freed, the vessel remains in Houthi custody at Hodeidah port.
Since November 2023, the Houthi group has conducted over 100 attacks on commercial vessels in the Red Sea, significantly disrupting international shipping. While they suspended attacks on Israeli cities following the January 19 ceasefire implementation, they maintain their stance on targeting vessels with Israeli connections.
The group has warned Western nations that military strikes against their positions would prompt retaliation against commercial vessels, forcing many shipping companies to reroute around Africa's southern cape, resulting in significant losses for Suez Canal revenues.
The Houthi group has controlled much of northern Yemen, including Hodeidah, since the outbreak of civil war in 2014. ■