Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-10 04:58:00
BEIRUT, Jan. 9 (Xinhua) -- The 14-month-long Hezbollah-Israel conflict has caused extensive destruction to numerous landmarks and archaeological sites in eastern and southern Lebanon, local officials have said, calling for funding and efforts for their protection and restoration.
One of the archaeological sites most affected by the clashes was the ancient Baalbek citadel and its surrounding areas, Hakim Sharif, head of the Baalbek Media Forum, told Xinhua.
The Baalbek citadel, located in eastern Lebanon, is one of the most significant and well-preserved examples of ancient Roman temple complexes. Known for its massive scale and intricate stonework, the citadel is a testament to the grandeur and engineering prowess of the Roman Empire. It was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1984 due to its historical, cultural, and architectural importance.
According to Sharif, the recent war has left scars on the outer wall of the citadel, the Gouraud barracks, the historic Manshiyeh building, the Palmyra Hotel, the Church of Our Lady of Perpetual Succour, the Greek Orthodox Church, the Saints Barbara and Takla Greek Catholic Cathedral, and the Melkite Greek Catholic Archeparchy of Baalbek.
"These sites now need huge budgets and intensive specialized engineering efforts to rebuild and revive," he said.
According to reports from the Internal Security Forces, and a preliminary estimate from the Ministry of Culture, Israeli air raids and bombings targeted six religious shrines, nine churches, 36 mosques, and six ancient castles, among other heritage buildings during the fight.
Head of the Nabatieh Traders Cooperative Association, Mohammad Jaber, told Xinhua that the Israeli bombing directly targeted the main heritage market in the southern city of Nabatieh, which contained 12 traditional architecture, 40 19th-century shops, and hundreds of commercial buildings.
Jaber said restoring these heritages would require millions of dollars.
On Nov. 7, 2024, Lebanese Culture Minister Mohammad Mortada and about 100 parliament members sent a letter to UNESCO, urging protection and restoration of Lebanese cultural heritage following the warfare.
"These landmarks embody centuries of history, achievements, and human identity, and carry deep values that connect generations, and their protection is not just a national interest, but a responsibility to preserve part of human civilization," the letter read.
Nevertheless, the final assessment of the damage will only be completed after the full Israeli withdrawal from the border area in southern Lebanon, Mortada's media office told Xinhua.
By then, "the ministry's technical teams will be able to reach these landmarks, inspect them, and conduct a comprehensive survey, and then request support from UNESCO," the media office said.
A ceasefire brokered by the United States and France took effect on Nov. 27, 2024, seeking to end nearly 14 months of conflict between Israel and Hezbollah.
Under the agreement, Israel is to withdraw from Lebanese territory within 60 days, with the Lebanese army deploying along the Lebanese-Israeli border and in southern Lebanon to assume security responsibilities and prevent the presence of weapons and militants. ■