Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-09 22:47:46
Smoke rises upon explosions and burning houses during an Israeli military raid in the Nur Shams Camp, northern West Bank, on Feb. 9, 2025.
At least two Palestinians, including a pregnant woman, were killed by the Israeli army in Nur Shams refugee camp in the north of the West Bank, the Ramallah-based Health Ministry said Sunday. (Photo by Nidal Eshtayeh/Xinhua)
RAMALLAH, Feb. 9 (Xinhua) -- At least two Palestinians, including a pregnant woman, were killed by the Israeli army in Nur Shams refugee camp in the north of the West Bank, the Ramallah-based Health Ministry said Sunday.
"Rahaf al-Ashqar, 21, and Sundus Shalabi, a 23-year-old pregnant woman, were killed by the Israeli army during its operation in Nur Shams refugee camp," the ministry said in a press statement.
The ministry added that medical crews were unable to save the unborn child as Israeli forces prevented ambulances from reaching Shalabi in time. By the time Shalabi was transported to the hospital, she and her fetus had succumbed to their injuries.
Meanwhile, the Israeli forces expanded their military operation from Tulkarm city into the Nur Shams camp, marking the 14th consecutive day of the offensive.
Local sources told Xinhua that Israeli forces were demolishing infrastructure and properties while forcibly displacing families from the camp.
Tulkarm Governor Abdullah Kamil condemned the Israeli escalation, saying that "on the 14th day of aggression against Tulkarm, Israeli forces, supported by military bulldozers, launched a new incursion into Nur Shams camp, besieging it from multiple directions."
Kamil called on the international community to intervene and halt what he described as an "unprecedented aggression" against Tulkarm and its refugee camps.
The Israeli army said in a press statement that "as part of efforts to counter terrorist activities in the West Bank, large forces from the IDF, Border Police, and Shin Bet launched an operation in the Nur Shams camp last night."
The Israeli forces had "targeted several militants and arrested others" during the raid, according to the army.
Tensions in the West Bank have been escalating since Oct. 7, 2023, amid ongoing violence. According to the Palestinian Ministry of Health, more than 800 Palestinians have been killed by Israeli gunfire and shelling during this period. ■
An Israeli military vehicle is seen during a military raid in the Nur Shams Camp, northern West Bank, on Feb. 9, 2025.
At least two Palestinians, including a pregnant woman, were killed by the Israeli army in Nur Shams refugee camp in the north of the West Bank, the Ramallah-based Health Ministry said Sunday. (Photo by Nidal Eshtayeh/Xinhua)
Smoke rises upon explosions and burning houses during an Israeli military raid in the Nur Shams Camp, northern West Bank, on Feb. 9, 2025.
At least two Palestinians, including a pregnant woman, were killed by the Israeli army in Nur Shams refugee camp in the north of the West Bank, the Ramallah-based Health Ministry said Sunday. (Photo by Nidal Eshtayeh/Xinhua)