Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-02-05 04:23:45
Lebanese President Joseph Aoun (R) meets with Qatari Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani in Beirut, Lebanon, on Feb. 4, 2025. Al Thani reaffirmed Tuesday Qatar's unwavering support for Lebanon. "Qatar will play an active role in Lebanon's reconstruction efforts," said Al Thani during his meeting with Lebanese President Joseph Aoun at Baabda Palace in Beirut, according to a statement released by the Lebanese presidency. (Xinhua/Bilal Jawich)
BEIRUT, Feb. 4 (Xinhua) -- Qatari Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani reaffirmed Tuesday Qatar's unwavering support for Lebanon.
"Qatar will play an active role in Lebanon's reconstruction efforts," said Al Thani during his meeting with Lebanese President Joseph Aoun at Baabda Palace in Beirut, according to a statement released by the Lebanese presidency.
The top Qatari diplomat expressed hope for the swift formation of a new Lebanese government that meets the aspirations of all the Syrian people.
He also reiterated Qatar's commitment to supporting the Lebanese Armed Forces and stressed the need to implement UN Resolution 1701 to respect Lebanon's sovereignty.
"We reaffirmed the importance of enforcing the ceasefire agreement between Lebanon and Israel and ensuring the withdrawal of Israeli forces from the south of Lebanon," Al Thani added, condemning Israel's violations of the agreement, which took effect on Nov. 27, 2024, and ended a 14-month conflict between the Israeli army and Hezbollah.
For his part, Aoun expressed deep appreciation for Qatar's support, particularly during challenging times. "Qatar has always stood by Lebanon and assisted its people in difficult circumstances," he stated.
The president also highlighted Qatar's vital role in supporting Lebanon's economy. "We highly appreciate Qatar's contributions, particularly in the development of Lebanon's oil and gas sector, and look forward to resuming exploration activities soon in collaboration with France's TotalEnergies," he remarked.
In 2023, Qatar signed an agreement with Lebanon, allowing its state-owned QatarEnergy to join TotalEnergies and Italy's ENI in a three-way consortium to explore oil and gas reserves in two maritime blocks off the coast of Lebanon.
During his visit, Al Thani also met with Lebanese Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri. ■