Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2025-01-30 02:46:45
Jordanian military helicopters loaded up with humanitarian and relief aid get ready to head to Gaza, at King Abdullah II Air Base in Zarqa, Jordan, on Jan. 29, 2025. Jordan sent another 16 aid helicopters to Gaza on Wednesday as part of its ongoing efforts to deliver assistance to the coastal enclave. (Photo by Mohammad Abu Ghosh/Xinhua)
AMMAN, Jan. 29 (Xinhua) -- Jordan sent another 16 aid helicopters to Gaza on Wednesday as part of its ongoing efforts to deliver assistance to the coastal enclave.
The helicopters carried 20 tonnes of humanitarian and relief aid, sent in collaboration with the Jordan Hashemite Charity Organization and several other countries, the state-run Petra news agency reported.
Jordan is diversifying its methods of delivering aid to Gaza, with military helicopters being used to speed up the transportation of urgent and perishable supplies, particularly medical treatments and essential healthcare items.
The humanitarian delivery is set to continue for eight days, with 16 aircraft operating daily, Petra reported. ■
A Jordanian military helicopter loaded up with humanitarian and relief aid takes off heading to Gaza, from King Abdullah II Air Base in Zarqa, Jordan, on Jan. 29, 2025. Jordan sent another 16 aid helicopters to Gaza on Wednesday as part of its ongoing efforts to deliver assistance to the coastal enclave. (Photo by Mohammad Abu Ghosh/Xinhua)
A Jordanian military helicopter loaded up with humanitarian and relief aid gets ready to head to Gaza, at King Abdullah II Air Base in Zarqa, Jordan, on Jan. 29, 2025. Jordan sent another 16 aid helicopters to Gaza on Wednesday as part of its ongoing efforts to deliver assistance to the coastal enclave. (Photo by Mohammad Abu Ghosh/Xinhua)
A Jordanian military helicopter loaded up with humanitarian and relief aid gets ready to head to Gaza, at King Abdullah II Air Base in Zarqa, Jordan, on Jan. 29, 2025. Jordan sent another 16 aid helicopters to Gaza on Wednesday as part of its ongoing efforts to deliver assistance to the coastal enclave. (Photo by Mohammad Abu Ghosh/Xinhua)