Eelko Brinkhoff, Director of Foreign Investments and International Trade at BOM, speaks at a seminar in Tilburg, the Netherlands, on June 20, 2023. The event, held on Tuesday, was attended by representatives from the Chinese Embassy in the Netherlands, the North Brabant Development Agency (BOM), and over 50 Dutch and Chinese companies. It focused on leveraging the "Trade Fair in Warehouse" trade promotion program, in order to support new energy enterprises in both countries.(JRC Tradeport/Handout via Xinhua)
TILBURG, the Netherlands, June 21 (Xinhua) -- Dutch and Chinese representatives have agreed to boost cooperation in the new energy sector, particularly photovoltaics and energy storage, at a seminar here.
The event, held on Tuesday, was attended by representatives from the Chinese Embassy in the Netherlands, the North Brabant Development Agency (BOM), and over 50 Dutch and Chinese companies. It focused on leveraging the "Trade Fair in Warehouse" trade promotion program, in order to support new energy enterprises in both countries.
The program promotes commodity trade between China and the Netherlands, and between China and Europe, by establishing cargo centers with exhibition, sales, and storage functions in the two countries.
China's Jiangsu Province and Netherlands' North Brabant Province officially launched their cooperation on the platform one year ago, and it has contributed to Jiangsu-Netherlands trade, which increased by 11.6 percent last year, and Jiangsu has become the Netherlands' largest provincial trading partner in China.
"There is vast development potential for China and the Netherlands in the field of new energy," Jin Yuan, Economic and Commercial Counselor at the Chinese Embassy said.
Eelko Brinkhoff, Director of Foreign Investments and International Trade at BOM, said that North Brabant and Jiangsu had become sister provinces in 1994. A direct freight train service was established between the two provinces in 2001, and their cooperation on the "Trade Fair in Warehouse" program began last year.
This deepening collaboration has helped improve the business environment in North Brabant, and enhanced economic and trade connections between the two sides, Brinkhoff said.
"Our world is far more interconnected than most people understand," he added. "I think excellent connectivity and accessibility are key in offering companies the best business environment."
Naomie Verstraeten from Battery Competence Cluster NL, a platform for the Dutch new energy battery supply chain, told Xinhua that the Netherlands currently has no large new energy battery cell production companies. However, it has significant opportunities in battery recycling and next-generation battery technology.
Therefore, the Netherlands is looking towards collaborating with Chinese new energy companies that have technological advantages in these fields, she said.
During the seminar, the Chinese and Dutch representatives shared their experience in the development of the new energy industry. They also discussed topics such as market demand for European new energy products in photovoltaics and energy storage, compliance requirements, storage supply chains, customs and tax laws, and the role of the "Trade Fair in Warehouse" program.
The "Trade Fair in Warehouse" program was launched by the Association of Chinese Investment Enterprises (ACIEN), together with many Chinese and Dutch companies. ■
Participants engage in discussions at a seminar in Tilburg, the Netherlands, on June 20, 2023. The event, held on Tuesday, was attended by representatives from the Chinese Embassy in the Netherlands, the North Brabant Development Agency (BOM), and over 50 Dutch and Chinese companies. It focused on leveraging the "Trade Fair in Warehouse" trade promotion program, in order to support new energy enterprises in both countries.(JRC Tradeport/Handout via Xinhua)
Jin Yuan, Economic and Commercial Counselor at the Chinese Embassy, speaks at a seminar in Tilburg, the Netherlands, on June 20, 2023. The event, held on Tuesday, was attended by representatives from the Chinese Embassy in the Netherlands, the North Brabant Development Agency (BOM), and over 50 Dutch and Chinese companies. It focused on leveraging the "Trade Fair in Warehouse" trade promotion program, in order to support new energy enterprises in both countries.(JRC Tradeport/Handout via Xinhua)