PARIS, June 29 (Xinhua) -- "The recent Paris Air Show showcased a promising recovery for the aviation industry. Airbus remains committed to making strides in the Chinese market," George Xu, chief executive officer of Airbus China, said in a recent interview with Xinhua.
Making the remarks during the week-long International Paris Air Show 2023, which ended on Sunday, Xu said China's highly competitive aviation market would bring new opportunities while the industry seeks to decarbonize.
The airshow gathered the world's aeronautic giants, including Boeing and Airbus, to display cutting-edge technology and envisage the future of aviation.
"Everyone is eager to communicate, and the market demand is apparent," Xu said. The Global Market Forecast 2023, released on June 13 by Airbus, revealed that the demand for new passenger and freighter aircraft is projected to reach 40,850 between 2023 and 2042. Of this total, approximately 9,440 aircraft, or 23 percent, are expected to go to the Chinese market.
"China's aviation market has recovered rapidly. We look forward to seeking more talks with Chinese airline customers," Xu added. "China has shown great industrial resilience over the past three years."
Cooperation between Airbus and its Chinese partners covers the entire industrial chain, from procurement, production and installation of large components to aircraft final assembly and delivery, according to Xu.
"We are now working with our Chinese partners to further improve the product's competitiveness. With the development of China's aviation industry, we believe that more globally competitive suppliers will emerge in China."
Xu said aviation decarbonization would significantly impact the industry and provide a much-needed boost.
In an earlier visit to China, Airbus executives signed a new agreement with the China National Aviation Fuel Group Corporation on intensifying cooperation in producing and developing common standards for sustainable aviation fuels, a biofuel used to power aircraft with a smaller carbon footprint.
The shift from fossil fuels to sustainable aviation fuels is critical to achieving net-zero emissions by 2050 in global aviation. In this regard, Xu said China could contribute to aviation decarbonization because of its rich resources in sustainable fuels. ■