Carla Marchetto performs tea ceremony during the 2023 "Chinese Bridge" language contest for Austrian college and high school students in Vienna, Austria, June 10, 2023. The final round of the 2023 "Chinese Bridge" language contest for Austrian college and high school students concluded here on Saturday, with a total of 14 students contesting for the championships.
The Chinese language proficiency competition, co-hosted by the Chinese Embassy in Austria, the Confucius Institute at the University of Vienna and the Confucius Institute at the University of Graz, featured contests of Chinese speeches, Chinese knowledge quizzes and talent shows. (Xinhua/He Canling)
VIENNA, June 10 (Xinhua) -- The final round of the 2023 "Chinese Bridge" language contest for Austrian college and high school students concluded here on Saturday, with a total of 14 students contesting for the championships.
The Chinese language proficiency competition, co-hosted by the Chinese Embassy in Austria, the Confucius Institute at the University of Vienna and the Confucius Institute at the University of Graz, featured contests of Chinese speeches, Chinese knowledge quizzes and talent shows.
Besides delivering speeches themed "One World, One Family," the contestants sang Chinese songs and performed traditional Chinese calligraphy, paper-cutting, tea ceremony and Taichi at the talent shows, showcasing their enthusiasm for the Chinese culture.
Carla Marchetto, a student at the Vienna University of Economics and Business, secured first place in the contest for college students, while Hanna Zemlic, a student from a Viennese high school, won in the high school category.
The winners will be invited to attend the global final in China to compete with contestants from other countries.
Chinese Ambassador to Austria Qi Mei said during Saturday's competition that she hopes the contestants will use language as a bridge to connect different countries and civilizations and contribute to world peace. ■
Shonae Kalifa Phillips sings during the 2023 "Chinese Bridge" language contest for Austrian college and high school students in Vienna, Austria, June 10, 2023. The final round of the 2023 "Chinese Bridge" language contest for Austrian college and high school students concluded here on Saturday, with a total of 14 students contesting for the championships.
The Chinese language proficiency competition, co-hosted by the Chinese Embassy in Austria, the Confucius Institute at the University of Vienna and the Confucius Institute at the University of Graz, featured contests of Chinese speeches, Chinese knowledge quizzes and talent shows. (Xinhua/He Canling)