BARCELONA, Spain, Oct. 20 (Xinhua) -- Despite the economic or political tensions that exist between China and Europe, international trade benefits both sides and must continue as "each side needs the other and everyone benefits," a Spanish economist told Xinhua on Friday.
In 2022, China was the European Union's (EU) third largest export partner for goods (9 percent) and the largest partner for EU imports of goods (20.8 percent), according to the European Commission.
"There might be certain products that cannot be sold due to national interests, but the large production chains set up in the past 20 years can't just disappear overnight," Sergi Basco, associate professor of economics at Barcelona University, told Xinhua in an interview.
"It would be very expensive for Spain, Germany and countries to move production from China to Madrid, for example," he said.
The economist commented on the recent political pressure on European firms to consider relocating production from China to Europe in order to reduce their economic dependence on the Asian country.
"European companies going to China wasn't to do them (the Chinese) a favor but because labor is cheaper, they (the Chinese workers) are more efficient and it was more cost-effective to move part of the production to China and finish off production in places like Germany," he explained.
"We need to try to ease tensions so that trade can continue," he said, noting that "We have to make sure that we don't go backwards."
This year marks the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between China and Spain. Since 1973, bilateral trade has risen to over 43 billion euros (45.5 billion U.S. dollars), according to the Spanish Institute for Foreign Trade (ICEX).
One example of a strong trade link between China and Europe is the Belt and Road Initiative. The China-Europe freight train services, under the BRI framework, now reach 217 cities in 25 European countries.
The professor also spoke about how the business relationship between European firms and China is adjusting to the new circumstances, such as the growing prosperity of the Chinese population.
"What European companies are starting to do is go to China to produce and then sell in China, as they understand how important the market is and that the Chinese want products made in China," he said. ■