A visitor views an exhibit at the "Wonderful Silk Road" Chinese Silk Art Exhibition in Budapest, Hungary, on Oct. 24, 2023. (Photo by Attila Volgyi/Xinhua)
BUDAPEST, Oct. 24 (Xinhua) -- In a fusion of history, art and culture, an exhibition of Chinese silk art opened on Tuesday at the Hungarian capital's Museum of Agriculture.
The "Wonderful Silk Road" Chinese Silk Art Exhibition, running from Oct. 25 to Dec. 3, offers a vivid exploration of the ancient trade routes of the Silk Road's legacy, art and profound cultural impact.
"Chinese-Hungarian cultural cooperation has always been a model for jointly building the Belt and Road. Based on mutual respect and benefits, the two countries have implemented comprehensive cultural and tourist cooperation within the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative," Gong Tao, China's ambassador to Hungary, said at the opening ceremony.
In the autumn of 2013, respectively in Kazakhstan and Indonesia, Chinese President Xi Jinping proposed the building of the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road, known as the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).
Gabor Csaba, deputy state secretary at the Ministry of Culture and Innovation of Hungary, said that thanks to the continued deepening and solidification of relations between Hungary and China, the Hungarian people have more opportunities to experience splendid Chinese culture through cultural activities held in Hungary.
In collaboration with the China National Silk Museum, the China Cultural Center in Budapest, the Hungarian Museum of Applied Arts and the Hungarian Museum of Agriculture, "Wonderful Silk Road" weaves together three captivating chapters.
Visitors are treated to an array of sixty individual units, displaying 80 ancient silk fabrics and modern clothing items, all curated by the China National Silk Museum.
Visitors are also invited to take an active part in the experience. They can try their hand at weaving on small looms at the venue and even take home their own handcrafted silk patterns, providing a tactile connection to the Silk Road's heritage. ■
Gabor Csaba (Rear), deputy state secretary at the Ministry of Culture and Innovation of Hungary, speaks at the opening ceremony of the "Wonderful Silk Road" Chinese Silk Art Exhibition in Budapest, Hungary, on Oct. 24, 2023. (Photo by Attila Volgyi/Xinhua)
A visitor views an exhibit at the "Wonderful Silk Road" Chinese Silk Art Exhibition in Budapest, Hungary, on Oct. 24, 2023. (Photo by Attila Volgyi/Xinhua)
A woman visits the "Wonderful Silk Road" Chinese Silk Art Exhibition in Budapest, Hungary, on Oct. 24, 2023. (Photo by Attila Volgyi/Xinhua)
A visitor views an exhibit at the "Wonderful Silk Road" Chinese Silk Art Exhibition in Budapest, Hungary, on Oct. 24, 2023. (Xinhua/Chen Hao)