BELGRADE, Nov. 10 (Xinhua) -- International experts convened at the "Dialogues on China 2023" conference here on Thursday to take a deep dive into China's evolving global role, and its global initiatives on development, security and civilization.
The two-day conference brought together scholars, diplomats, policymakers, and experts, and was jointly organized by the Institute of International Politics and Economics in Belgrade (IIPE) in collaboration with the Institute of European Studies (IES) of the Chinese Academy of Social Science (CASS).
The primary objective of the event was to highlight peaceful and cooperative international relations, and to provide invaluable insights for those seeking a profound understanding of China's role in today's changing world order.
"The purpose of this conference is to create a platform for in-depth discussions on various aspects of China's evolving role in the global landscape," said Professor Branislav Djordjevic, director of the IIPE, in his opening address.
IIPE's Deputy Director Ivona Ladjevac underlined China's strategy beyond the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), particularly its collaborations with organizations like the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) and BRICS. Ladjevac highlighted China's dedication to fostering connectivity, and expanding its international partnerships.
Ladjevac also elaborated on China's Global Security Initiative (GSI), underlining the significance of multilateral security cooperation.
The Global Development Initiative (GDI) aligns with the 2030 UN sustainable development agenda, she said, offering a more robust, eco-friendly, and balanced global development approach.
She also highlighted the Global Civilization Initiative (GCI), emphasizing its focus on cultural diversity and exchange. "Even in the current state of international relations burdened with numerous challenges, China remains committed to advocating the idea of creating a Global Community of Shared Future, which should steer us away from disruptive forces," she said.
Chinese Ambassador to Serbia Li Ming emphasized Serbia's role in the implementation of those initiatives, highlighting the positive impact that cooperation has had on the country's economic growth over the past years.
Serbian Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs Irena Sarac told conference participants that cooperation is vital for maintaining global stability, underlining Serbia's unwavering support for all Chinese initiatives that contribute to prosperity, security, and development. ■