Serbia's President Aleksandar Vucic greets pupils from schools in other towns and cities via video link in front of an interactive whiteboard donated by Chinese telecommunications company Huawei while visiting Vuk Karadzic elementary school in the village of Lovcenac in Serbia's northern province of Vojvodina on Sept. 1, 2023. Chinese telecommunications company Huawei donated 150 interactive whiteboards to elementary schools in Serbia on Friday.
During his visit to the Vuk Karadzic elementary school in the village of Lovcenac in Serbia's northern province of Vojvodina, Serbia's President Aleksandar Vucic wished the students a happy start of the new school year in classrooms empowered by the new smartboards, stressing that Huawei's initiative advances and modernizes Serbia's educational system. (Serbian president's office/Handout via Xinhua)
BELGRADE, Sept. 1 (Xinhua) -- Chinese telecommunications company Huawei donated 150 interactive whiteboards to elementary schools in Serbia on Friday.
During his visit to the Vuk Karadzic elementary school in the village of Lovcenac in Serbia's northern province of Vojvodina, Serbia's President Aleksandar Vucic wished the students a happy start of the new school year in classrooms empowered by the new smartboards, stressing that Huawei's initiative advances and modernizes Serbia's educational system. Vucic also, through video link, greeted pupils from schools in other towns and cities which also received the smartboard donation.
"This initiative is another step towards building a modern and technologically advanced education system in Serbia, and education is the foundation on which a successful society is built," Vucic said.
Besides the school in Lovcenac, Huawei also donated smartboards to schools in the towns and cities of Krupanj, Pancevo, Petrovac, Merosina, Varvarin and Negotin.
The new smartboards with 2.2-meter displays are "interactive screens, which enable writing and handwriting recognition, automatic conversion to text, sketches, slides or mathematical formulas, but also high-definition video calls and wireless content sharing (between teachers and pupils)," Huawei said.
The Chinese company will provide technical support to teachers on how to use the smartboards. ■
A student paints on an interactive whiteboard donated by Chinese telecommunications company Huawei at an elementary school in the village of Lovcenac in Serbia's northern province of Vojvodina on Sept. 1, 2023. Chinese telecommunications company Huawei donated 150 interactive whiteboards to elementary schools in Serbia on Friday.
During his visit to the Vuk Karadzic elementary school in the village of Lovcenac in Serbia's northern province of Vojvodina, Serbia's President Aleksandar Vucic wished the students a happy start of the new school year in classrooms empowered by the new smartboards, stressing that Huawei's initiative advances and modernizes Serbia's educational system. (Serbian president's office/Handout via Xinhua)