This photo taken on Dec. 9, 2023 shows a view of wind turbines in Konya, Türkiye. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)
by Burak Akinci
ANKARA, Dec. 9 (Xinhua) -- The success of China in renewable energy inspires and shows a responsible path to other countries including Türkiye in their efforts to tackle climate change, a Turkish expert said.
"China has been making huge progress in shifting from its dependence on coal to renewables for power generation," Selcuk Colakoglu, director of the Ankara-based Turkish Centre for Asia-Pacific Studies, told Xinhua in a recent interview.
As carbon emission is a major factor behind global warming, China has been quick in action to cut it in response, he said, stressing that the steady growth of renewables was accompanied by accelerated investments in infrastructure projects.
This expert indicated that China gave clear messages on its readiness to work with all parties and address global climate challenges at the ongoing 28th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28) in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates.
"China's renewable energy resources continue to lead the world, and the focus of the global new energy industry is gravitating toward China," Colakoglu said.
Colakoglu noted that there is a great potential for collaboration between China and Türkiye in terms of climate change.
"Türkiye can develop an action plan for its renewable energy infrastructure inspired by the best practices of China," he said.
For Colakoglu, China with its knowledge of green transition and as a world leader in clean energy technologies may play a key role and offer more help to developing countries such as Türkiye in coping with the challenges brought by climate change.
Located in the Mediterranean basin, Türkiye is one of the countries most affected by the adverse consequences of climate change.
On a global scale, it is expected that the temperature rise in the Mediterranean zone will be higher than the global temperature increase.
Predictions for the basin suggest significant reductions in rainfall by the end of the century.
The age of global warming had ended and the "era of global boiling" had arrived, the United Nations has also warned, urging all nations to find common ground for effective measures to address the climate crisis.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan who participated in the opening ceremony of the Climate Change Conference in Dubai, has called for an equal distribution of financial and technology resources to help with climate protection efforts.
He announced that Türkiye intends to increase the proportion of renewable energy to 69 percent by 2053 and achieve the net zero emissions target by the same year.
The Ankara government says it is advocating for more concrete action against the impact of climate change and the prevention of global warming instead of commitment plans.
Climate researchers however argue that Türkiye should do more regarding climate change as its responsibility for greenhouse gas emissions is increasing.
In Colakoglu's view, a possible cooperation between Türkiye and China, the world's second-largest economy, to achieve the goals of clean energy will be a win-win solution for both sides in the future.
"As China has experience and know-how in clean energy industries while being eager to use them to boost economic cooperation with other countries, Ankara would be able to realize its clean-energy goals at a relatively low cost," this expert explained.
Building Sino-Turkish joint ventures on solar, wind power, electric vehicles, and power batteries will be a viable solution for the Turkish economy which is currently undergoing serious challenges, Colakoglu added. ■
 
This photo taken on Dec. 9, 2023 shows a view of wind turbines in Konya, Türkiye. (Mustafa Kaya/Handout via Xinhua)