by Xinhua writers Xu Feng, Zhang Boning and Wu Lu
EDINBURGH, Britain, July 16 (Xinhua) -- More than 800 performers from around the world, including about 280 from China, enlivened Scotland's capital with color, sound and movement as the annual Edinburgh Festival Carnival kicked off on Sunday.
During the carnival, Scotland's largest and most flamboyant multicultural event, the performers presented music, dance, costumes, giant puppets and circus acrobatics at Princes Street Gardens against the backdrop of the iconic Edinburgh Castle.
They first made circles at Princes Street Gardens with thousands of spectators cheering them on. Then they took turns to perform at Ross Theater, an outdoor concert venue at the center stage of Princes Street Gardens.
Performances put on by the Chinese community in Edinburgh, such as festive dragon and lion dance, colorful ethnic dance, exhilarating drumming and swordplay, drew waves of roaring applause.
"I like China's dragon (dancing). It's beautiful. The movement is very fluent," Cinthia Medrado, a local resident among the crowds, told Xinhua.
"The carnival is about learning about different cultures and respecting and celebrating. It's nice to see different things going on," Medrado added.
"Civilizations are enriched by exchanges and mutual learning. The Edinburgh Festival Carnival provides a stage for cultural exchanges and mutual learning. China, a country with a long history and splendid culture, has a lot to showcase here," said Chinese Consul General in Edinburgh Zhang Biao.
The carnival is an annual event organized by the Edinburgh Jazz and Blues Festival which was set up in 1978. It marks the beginning of Edinburgh's Summer Festival season when a series of festivals will last from mid-July till the end of August.
Zhao Chunze, a graduate student majoring in Dance Science & Education at the University of Edinburgh, was thrilled by the warm response from the audience when she and her teammates performed the Han-Tang Classical Chinese Dance.
"I'm excited to have the opportunity to show China's traditional dance culture on such a global stage. It's good to let people know that there are so many types of dance in China and we can come together and share the joy," Zhao told Xinhua. ■