This photo taken on Sept. 15, 2023 shows the China (Beijing) pavilion at the International Broadcasting Convention (IBC) 2023 in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Leading Chinese companies in the broadcasting industry are exhibiting their cutting-edge hardware and software solutions at the ongoing International Broadcasting Convention (IBC) 2023, a renowned international event in the media, entertainment, and technology industries.
The China (Beijing) pavilion covers an area of 180 square meters. A total of 12 companies from Beijing and Tianjin presented an array of cutting-edge hardware, software, and technological solutions within the broadcasting industry. Leading media and entertainment companies like Bona Film Group, Happy Mahua, iQiyi, and Youku showcased various exquisitely produced video content. (Photo by Sylvia Lederer/Xinhua)
AMSTERDAM, Sept. 16 (Xinhua) -- Leading Chinese companies in the broadcasting industry are exhibiting their cutting-edge hardware and software solutions at the ongoing International Broadcasting Convention (IBC) 2023, a renowned international event in the media, entertainment, and technology industries.
The China (Beijing) pavilion covers an area of 180 square meters. A total of 12 companies from Beijing and Tianjin presented an array of cutting-edge hardware, software, and technological solutions within the broadcasting industry. Leading media and entertainment companies like Bona Film Group, Happy Mahua, iQiyi, and Youku showcased various exquisitely produced video content.
A key exhibit on display at the booth of BOE Technology Group Co., Ltd was an LCD with a pixel pitch of 0.9mm, independently developed by BOE.
"This is the world's first glass-based direct-view product and take a lead in the sector globally," said BOE Vice President Liu Yi.
Kinefinity (Beijing), a leading cinema camera manufacturer, brought its latest versions of digital cinema cameras, including a new generation high-performance camera capable of outputting 2K HD and 4K HDR videos.
Meanwhile, Chinese and European companies in the broadcasting industry held a conference on Saturday here on the sidelines of IBC 2023.
Delivering a keynote speech, Ding Wenhua, an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, called for collaboration at various stages in the development of the ultra-high-definition industry chain.
He also touched upon the latest developments in the VR and AR industries, as well as those concerning the metaverse.
Lu Beike, Visual Director and Animation Director of the science fiction series "The Three-Body Problem," discussed China's innovative visual effects solutions and future technological prospects from the perspectives of film special effects and animation.
Zhang Wengang, Secretary-General of the UHD (Ultra High Definition) World Association, shared his insights on technology standards and the industrial ecosystem in the field of UHD.
Olivier Chiabodo, Co-founder and CEO of The Explorers, a French company which excels in UHD 8K images, discussed the topic of UHD content production and his company's future filming projects related to China.
Anaclaire Bernardes, senior analyst of the International Trade Association for Broadcast and Media Technology (IABM), provided an analysis of the development of media technology in the Asia-Pacific region, particularly in China.
She expressed confidence in the future development of China's broadcasting industry, citing contributions of Chinese companies' products and technologies to the international broadcasting industry.
The IBC, first held in 1967, serves as a platform for networking, knowledge sharing and showcasing the latest innovations in the broadcasting and media sectors. The exhibition now annually draws participants, speakers, and visitors from over 170 countries and regions worldwide.
IBC 2023, running from Sept. 15 to 18, showcases the rapid evolution of broadcasting technologies, especially 5G, immersive experiences, AI and cybersecurity. ■