UTRECHT, the Netherlands, Oct. 14 (Xinhua) -- In a dynamic collaboration for over two decades, Dutch entrepreneur Jacob Borgesius has teamed up with Chinese partners to elevate his Alp Lift, a company in its 30 years of operation specializing in providing height solutions to European clients.
"There is a lot of innovation. There is flexibility. That's one of the reasons why we chose a Chinese producer," Borgesius, CEO and owner of Alp Lift, told Xinhua in a recent interview.
Taking Chenli, a Chinese supplier based in Suzhou City, Jiangsu Province, as an example, he explained that while many other manufacturers produce standard machines, Chenli's commitment to customization and problem-solving sets them apart.
This focus on flexibility and quality is what makes their collaboration thrive, as they aim to meet the unique demands of their clients. The same is true with Zoomline, a Chinese company located in Changsha, a city in central China, and another supplier of Alp Lift, offering different types of machines for working at heights.
Chinese partners such as Chenli and Zoomline stand out due to their remarkable capacity to swiftly deliver high-quality machinery, he emphasized.
"Some clients are really demanding. It should be 100 percent, maybe sometimes 110 percent perfect, and that's what we are," he said. "We try to exceed the expectations of our clients."
Some clients often have pressing demands, requiring swift deliveries, and "our Chinese partners can manufacture the required machinery within just one to one and a half weeks," Borgesius said.
This remarkable efficiency enables us to ship the equipment promptly, leaving the clients surprised. "Most of them say, 'wow, that is fast.'" he said. "That's really an advantage."
Despite the challenges brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic, Alp Lift and Chenli managed to maintain their high standards of production and supply.
China's resilience during the pandemic and its ability to meet production demands while keeping quality intact have been highly appreciated by Alp Lift.
"China, during COVID, was able to produce and supply us with machines ... I know it was a difficult time for us, also in Holland. But they managed to maintain their production levels. I really appreciated it," he said.
As a result, even during the pandemic, Alp Lift maintained its operations. "We could still open the doors. We could supply our clients with machines because there was still demand for new machines."
Right after travel restrictions to and from China were lifted early this year, Alp Lift and its Chinese partners swiftly reconnected.
"At the beginning of the year, I received an unexpected phone call from Chenli, who informed me of their impending trip to Europe," he recalled.
"We welcomed Chenli here," Borgesius remarked, gesturing towards the office in which he presently sat. "We sat here in the room and we discussed the future plans for this year and for the years after."
During this meeting, they formalized their commitment by signing a contract.
"If he were not here, I would still sign the contract. But I really appreciated his visit here," Borgesius said, adding that he will reciprocate this visit in the near future, further strengthening their partnership and exploring opportunities.
"Yes, I'm busy with a new Chinese partner. It's still a secret," said Borgesius, when asked about his future business plans in China. ■