ZAGREB, July 16 (Xinhua) -- Eight Chinese police officers will join their Croatian counterparts to patrol in four major Croatian tourist cities for one month in order to better serve tourists, especially Chinese tourists, in the country.
This year's joint police patrol project was launched on Sunday at the Chinese embassy in Croatia's capital Zagreb and has been the fourth of such kind since 2018.
This tourism season's China-Croatia joint police patrol will be conducted in Zagreb, Zadar, Plitvice Lakes National Park and Dubrovnik, all of which are main tourist destinations in Croatia.
Qi Qianjin, Chinese ambassador to Croatia, Irena Vuksanovic, state secretary of the Croatian Interior Ministry, Zorica Lausic, chief of the International Police Cooperation Division at the Croatian Interior Ministry and the eight Chinese police officers attended today's ceremony.
Addressing the ceremony, Qi said the joint project has effectively improved the experience of Chinese tourists in Croatia and made contributions to China-Croatia tourism cooperation.
The mutual trust and cooperation demonstrated by the joint police patrol project are invaluable, Qi said, noting that China attaches importance to developing mutually beneficial and win-win relations with European countries, including Croatia, and the joint police patrol is the epitome of China-Croatia friendship.
"We are ready to work with Croatia to consolidate our traditional friendship, explore further cooperation potentials and push forward a steady and long-term growth of China-Croatia comprehensive partnership of cooperation," he said.
Lausic hailed the good cooperation between the two sides as the joint police patrol has contributed to making Croatia a "safe tourist destination."
With this year's eight Chinese police officers, so far a total of 30 Chinese police officers have joined the project, she said, adding that this confirmed the success of the project.
Xu Jianjun, one of the eight Chinese police to work here, said that they will work together with Croatian colleagues to help enhance the security of Chinese tourists and overseas Chinese in Croatia. ■