ATHENS, June 22 (Xinhua) -- Greek and Chinese participants jointly celebrated the Dragon Boat Festival in Piraeus, Greece's largest port, on Wednesday evening, exchanging good wishes for health and prosperity, and expressing their willingness to forge stronger bilateral ties for the benefit of both countries.
The event was jointly organized by COSCO Shipping Piraeus Port Authority, China Public Diplomacy Association, the Chinese Embassy in Greece, and the Athens Business Confucius Institute.
The event, which was hosted at the premises of Piraeus Port Authority S.A. (PPA S.A.), saw Greek and Chinese participants singing popular songs together and students of the Athens Business Confucius Institute reciting classic poems of the two countries. The attendees were offered Zongzi, a pyramid-shaped dumpling made of glutinous rice wrapped in bamboo or reed leaves, along with Greek desserts.
COSCO Shipping acquired a majority stake in PPA in 2016 after an international tender. The group's subsidiary, Piraeus Container Terminal S.A. (PCT), has managed the port's container terminal since 2010.
The annual Dragon Boat Festival is about unity and harmony, just like the Chinese and Greeks jointly working on this "win-win" port project, PPA Chairman Yu Zenggang said in his welcoming speech.
"We have come closer by getting better acquainted with each other's culture, history and traditions," Piraeus Mayor Yiannis Moralis told the event.
"Greek and Chinese cultures have many common elements, which helps to bring the two nations closer together," Pantelis Dioletis, deputy mayor of Salamina municipality, told Xinhua.
Greek guests were also introduced to the history, symbolism, and traditions of the Dragon Boat Festival and had a chance to closely observe martial arts shows.
It is the mutual respect that brings closer two countries, both of which have an ancient civilization to look back on, and not only economic ties, Wu Hailong, president of China Public Diplomacy Association, said in his speech.
George Lekakos, deputy rector of the Athens University of Economics and Business, urged the audience to "embrace the values that this festival embodies." ■