Bulgarian Deputy Minister of Tourism Irena Georgieva speaks at a forum promoting cultural tourism of China's Zhejiang Province in Sofia, Bulgaria, on Dec. 7, 2023. A delegation from China's Zhejiang Province welcomed Bulgarian tourists at a forum promoting the province's attractions in Sofia on Thursday. (Photo by Marian Draganov/Xinhua)
SOFIA, Dec. 7 (Xinhua) -- A delegation from China's Zhejiang Province welcomed Bulgarian tourists at a forum promoting the province's attractions in Sofia on Thursday.
During the event, the audience enjoyed a video presentation about Zhejiang, a photo exhibition, a performance of traditional Chinese musical instruments and a tea ceremony.
Hu Wei, vice governor of Zhejiang, said the event at the China Cultural Center showcased his province's beautiful scenery, cultural heritage and dynamic vibrancy. "We hope to use this event as an important opportunity to continue to deepen exchanges and cooperation in culture, tourism and other fields," Hu said.
Wang Min, charge d'affaires of the Chinese Embassy in Bulgaria, said she hoped that interpersonal and cultural exchanges, as well as practical cooperation, between China and Bulgaria would increase. "At the same time, I hope to see more Bulgarian friends embark on a journey to China," she said.
Meanwhile, Director of the China Cultural Center in Sofia Hong Hai introduced China's national tourism brand, "Nihao! ('Hello' in Chinese) China," to Bulgaria.
The Chinese Ministry of Culture and Tourism recently introduced "Nihao! China" as the tourism brand, featuring a logo with a chubby cartoon panda, "Nihao China" lettering and a traditional Chinese seal conveying the greeting "Hello China." A wide-ranging campaign has started to promote tourism in China with this brand.
Bulgarian Deputy Minister of Tourism Irena Georgieva also attended the event. She said her ministry attaches great importance to the development of Bulgarian-Chinese relations in tourism, and supports initiatives promoting bilateral cooperation in this field.
"The forum today is undoubtedly an example of this," Georgieva added. ■
 
People taste Chinese tea at a forum promoting cultural tourism of China's Zhejiang Province in Sofia, Bulgaria, on Dec. 7, 2023. A delegation from China's Zhejiang Province welcomed Bulgarian tourists at a forum promoting the province's attractions in Sofia on Thursday. (Photo by Marian Draganov/Xinhua)
A man takes photos of China's national tourism brand, "Nihao China", at a forum promoting cultural tourism of China's Zhejiang Province in Sofia, Bulgaria, on Dec. 7, 2023. A delegation from China's Zhejiang Province welcomed Bulgarian tourists at a forum promoting the province's attractions in Sofia on Thursday. (Photo by Marian Draganov/Xinhua)
A woman poses for a photo next to China's national tourism brand, "Nihao China", at a forum promoting cultural tourism of China's Zhejiang Province in Sofia, Bulgaria, on Dec. 7, 2023. A delegation from China's Zhejiang Province welcomed Bulgarian tourists at a forum promoting the province's attractions in Sofia on Thursday. (Photo by Marian Draganov/Xinhua)