Students of the University of Malta learn to make Zongzi, a pyramid-shaped dumpling made of glutinous rice wrapped in bamboo or reed leaves, in Msida, Malta, on June 22, 2023. To celebrate the Dragon Boat Festival, the Confucius Institute at the University of Malta on Thursday organized a special event where students can participate in making and enjoying Zongzi. (Xinhua/Chen Wenxian)
VALLETTA, June 22 (Xinhua) -- Students from the Confucius Institute at the University of Malta marked the traditional Chinese Dragon Boat Festival on Thursday by making dumplings called Zongzi.
Sun Yi, a teacher at the Confucius Institute, explained the origins of the Dragon Boat Festival and its associated customs, such as eating Zongzi, participating in dragon boat races, and carrying scented sachets.
In a question-and-answer session, the students were able to deepen their understanding of the cultural significance of the Dragon Boat Festival, while incorporating their knowledge of the Chinese language.
Chef Bao Xiaolei, a member of the 18th Chinese medical team to Malta, guided the students in wrapping the Zongzi dumplings. Although most of the students had eaten Zongzi before, it was the first time many of them had made them.
The pyramid-shaped dumplings are made of glutinous rice wrapped in bamboo or reed leaves. Achieving the perfect wrap is not easy, Hristiyana Buchakova told Xinhua; applying excessive force could cause the bamboo leaves to tear, while being too gentle might cause the Zongzi to unravel, she said.
Emmanouil Xylakis said he finds China's traditional festivals fascinating, as they not only offer the opportunity to savor delicious Chinese cuisine, but also provide insight into Chinese culture.
Activities such as the Dragon Boat Festival celebrations are always popular, Sun Yi told Xinhua. Both students and local residents show great interest in traditional Chinese culture, she added.
The Dragon Boat Festival, also known as Duanwu Festival, traditionally falls on the fifth day of the fifth month in the Chinese lunar calendar, and on Thursday this year. ■
A student of the University of Malta shows Zongzi, a pyramid-shaped dumpling made of glutinous rice wrapped in bamboo or reed leaves, in Msida, Malta, on June 22, 2023. To celebrate the Dragon Boat Festival, the Confucius Institute at the University of Malta on Thursday organized a special event where students can participate in making and enjoying Zongzi. (Xinhua/Chen Wenxian)