ZAGREB, Oct. 2 (Xinhua) -- The successful completion of the Peljesac Bridge in southern Croatia by the China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC) has demonstrated the Chinese company's capabilities, Josip Skoric, general manager of state-run road operator Croatian Roads, told Xinhua on Monday.
"The CRBC has proved to be a good and reliable partner. Our cooperation has been successful, and I am sure that our previous cooperation during the construction of the Peljesac Bridge will be beneficial for the new project in Split," Skoric said, noting that the CRBC won the new infrastructure deal in public procurement conducted in accordance with the European Union (EU) regulations.
Through the Peljesac Bridge project, the CRBC has showcased China's technology, speed and "their commitment and dedication to work," Skoric said.
On Sept. 27, Skoric signed a deal to build a 6.85-km section of road in Split, Croatia's second-largest city, with Yang Dong, CRBC's Central and Eastern Europe general manager. The signing ceremony in Split was attended by Croatia's Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic, and Qi Qianjin, Chinese ambassador to Croatia.
According to Skoric, Split and its surroundings have been facing increasing traffic pressure, and the city's current road network cannot cope with the large number of vehicles. This is why the new deal with CRBC is "one of the most important strategic projects" both in Split-Dalmatia County and in Croatia as well.
Noting the signing ceremony in Split reminded him of the signing of the Peljesac Bridge project between him and a CRBC representative in 2018, Skoric said that the new road will reduce travel time, increase traffic safety, promote local economic development and most importantly, strengthen the bond between China and Croatia just like the Peljesac Bridge does.
Croatian Roads "will do everything in its power to finalize the project as planned," he added.
The contract to construct the section of road between Vucevica junction on the A1 motorway and a junction on DC8 road in Split is worth 74.6 million euros (78.4 million U.S. dollars). It includes a 2.5-km-long tunnel, three overpasses and two viaducts.
"Technically it is a very complex project, but the CRBC has proved itself through the Peljesac Bridge and can handle the most complex projects by applying the most modern technology," Skoric said.
He expressed his confidence that the Chinese company will be able to finish the new road on schedule, which is expected to start early next year with a completion deadline of three years.
The CRBC-led Chinese consortium constructed the 2.4-km Peljesac Bridge that connects Croatia's mainland with the Peljesac Peninsula on the country's southern Adriatic coast.
The bridge, inaugurated on July 26, 2022, has significantly cut the travel time from the Croatian mainland to the Adriatic coast, promoted transport and increased economic opportunities for the region, therefore winning praise from people in all walks of life in Croatia. (1 euro = 1.05 U.S. dollars) ■