BRATISLAVA, Nov. 21 (Xinhua) -- The illustrators of Chinese children's books remain among the most internationally awarded artists thanks to their consistent use of unique and traditional styles of artistic expression, Zuzana Jarosova told Xinhua in a recent interview.
Jarosova, general commissioner of the Biennial of Illustrations Bratislava (BIB), said that "There is always the masterful craftsmanship, painting or drawing talent that the jury appreciates about the Chinese illustrations as they maintain high quality and are masterpieces of art."
Chinese illustrator Chen Xunru received the Golden Apple award for her artwork in the book of Bull King Festival at the ongoing 29th edition of the BIB, which lasts from Oct. 4 till Dec. 3.
Chen is the seventh Chinese illustrator who has received such an award. This year, the international BIB jury judged 2,072 illustrations by 275 illustrators from 36 countries and regions.
Jarosova said the jurors are always looking for artists who are "authentic, original" while "keeping their deep connection to culture, traditions and the mastery of old techniques."
Jarosova has been overseeing the competition for the past 16 years. The first Chinese illustrator to win a Golden Apple was Cai Gao in 1993, Jarosova recalled.
Illustrations in children's books play a key role in their mental development as a good illustrator can elevate the story and build "additional floors of the architecture of imagination," thus kickstarting the small readers' fantasy, Jarosova noted.
Art for children is also one of the best ways to build bridges of cooperation and understanding between various cultures of the world, she said.
The BIB, established more than half a century ago, has been one of the most prestigious competitions for illustrations of children's books, and it is supported by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the International Board on Books for Young People (IBBY).
An international tour exhibition of picture books from China was held as an accompanying event of this year's BIB from Sept. 28 to Oct. 14.
The exhibition was well received and local people had for the first time the opportunity to see the trends of interesting illustrators from China in such a great extent, Jarosova said.
This edition of the BIB also welcomed a Chinese delegation, including illustrators awarded by the BIB, authors and publishers, which was "a wonderful experience for them and for us," she said.
"We agreed upon organizing many events together, and I will do everything I can for cooperation to continue and improve further," Jarosova said. ■