John Bonello, translator of "The Three-Body Problem," reads the Maltese version of the book during a book launch event at the Malta Book Festival in Attard, central Malta, on Nov. 8, 2024. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua)
VALLETTA, Nov. 8 (Xinhua) -- A Maltese version of "The Three-Body Problem," the acclaimed science fiction novel, was officially launched on Friday at the Malta Book Festival, which runs from Nov. 6 to Nov. 10 in Attard, central Malta.
At the book launch event, attendees were captivated as excerpts from "The Three-Body Problem" were read in Chinese, Maltese, and English. The published book is the first in "The Three-Body Problem" trilogy.
"The Three-Body Problem," written by Chinese author Liu Cixin, portrays humanity's struggle for survival against an existential threat from an alien civilization. The novel's expansive cosmic vision and profound philosophical reflections earned it the prestigious Hugo Award, one of the highest honors in the sci-fi genre.
In a video address, Liu said that "The Three-Body Problem" represents his years of contemplation on technology, the universe, civilization, and human nature. Its creative inspiration is derived from the "three-body problem" in celestial mechanics, he said, adding that based on this scientific problem, he envisioned a galaxy where three stars engage in irregular motion and the existence of the "Three-Body Civilization" within the galaxy.
The novel has been published in more than 30 languages and has gradually become a sci-fi work that influences readers in many countries, he said. "I do not speak Maltese, but science fiction is a language we share," Liu said. He expressed his hope that Maltese readers will enjoy the book and he looks forward to visiting the beautiful country of Malta one day.
"This is quite an accomplishment," Joanne Micallef, director of Malta's Faraxa Publishing, which is responsible for the publication of the book, told Xinhua, adding that she was very proud to have secured the rights to publish the novel in Maltese. She said that the company has a plan to translate the remaining two books into Maltese as well.
Micallef emphasized the significance of the translation, noting that so far only a few Chinese books have been translated into Maltese. She hopes that this project will "open the road" for more works in the genre to reach Maltese readers.
She also expressed interest in further collaboration with Chinese publishers, saying that the experience of publishing the Maltese-version "The Three-Body Problem" was highly positive and that she looks forward to continued partnerships with Chinese publishers.
John Bonello, the book's translator, began work on the project in June 2023. He dedicated ten months to the first draft, working daily, followed by an additional six months to bring the book to publishing standard. "It was challenging and required a lot of hard work, but the story deserves it," he told Xinhua.
According to Bonello, there are very few science fiction books in the Maltese language. He hopes that this book will be well-received and inspire more Maltese writers to create works in Maltese. He also expressed hope to bring more of China's remarkable literature to Maltese readers, offering them a window to explore Chinese culture through translation.
Lynn Zammit Russell crafted the cover of the book. She is also a fan of science fiction novels and movies. "I have watched the Netflix series 3 Body Problem, but I'm looking forward to reading the book today," she told Xinhua.
Malta's National Book Council and the China Cultural Center in Malta supported the publication of the book. ■
John Bonello (R), translator of "The Three-Body Problem," autographs a Maltese version of the book during a book launch event at the Malta Book Festival in Attard, central Malta, on Nov. 8, 2024. (Photo by Jonathan Borg/Xinhua)
 