Pembroke Mayor Kaylon Zammit (C) writes Chinese calligraphy in Pembroke, Malta, Sept. 27, 2024. A "Chinese culture night" event was held on Friday evening in Pembroke, eastern Malta, drawing significant participation from the local community. The event showcased various aspects of Chinese culture, including traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), Chinese calligraphy and painting, traditional music, and cuisine, alongside displays of exquisite Chinese handicrafts. (Xinhua/Chen Wenxian)
VALLETTA, Sept. 28 (Xinhua) -- A "Chinese culture night" event was held on Friday evening in Pembroke, eastern Malta, drawing significant participation from the local community.
The event showcased various aspects of Chinese culture, including traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), Chinese calligraphy and painting, traditional music, and cuisine, alongside displays of exquisite Chinese handicrafts.
Co-hosted by the Chinese Embassy in Malta and the China-Malta Culture and Sports Exchange Promotion Association, the event aims to foster cultural exchange between China and Malta.
"We gather not only to experience Chinese culture but also to strengthen the bonds of friendship and understanding between the residents of Pembroke and the Chinese community," said Peng Yijun, charge d'affaires of the Chinese Embassy in Malta.
He noted that China-Malta relations are at a "new historical starting point."
The 20th Chinese medical team for Malta from the Mediterranean Regional Centre for Traditional Chinese Medicine, was present, offering the TCM treatment and performing Tai Chi.
Gerard Lom, a local attendee, tried a massage treatment for the first time and was surprised by the effectiveness in relieving stress and pain in his neck and back. "I feel very relaxed," he told Xinhua and said he would consider TCM again.
Pembroke Mayor Kaylon Zammit praised the event for bringing the Maltese and Chinese communities together, noting that such events can help both communities grow more accustomed to and understand each other.
Zammit was also excited to experience TCM and calligraphy. Praising the long-standing relationship between Malta and China, the mayor told Xinhua that he looks forward to visiting the beautiful country in the future.
Cultural exchanges serve as one of the best bridges to strengthen the friendship between China and Malta, Zhang Da, president of China-Malta Culture and Sports Exchange Promotion Association, said in his speech, describing this event as a great opportunity for Maltese residents to deepen their understanding of Chinese culture and make Chinese friends. ■
Pembroke Mayor Kaylon Zammit (front) experiences Chinese-style massage treatment in Pembroke, Malta, Sept. 27, 2024. A "Chinese culture night" event was held on Friday evening in Pembroke, eastern Malta, drawing significant participation from the local community.
The event showcased various aspects of Chinese culture, including traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), Chinese calligraphy and painting, traditional music, and cuisine, alongside displays of exquisite Chinese handicrafts. (Xinhua/Chen Wenxian)
A Chinese doctor introduces traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) to people in Pembroke, Malta, Sept. 27, 2024. A "Chinese culture night" event was held on Friday evening in Pembroke, eastern Malta, drawing significant participation from the local community.
The event showcased various aspects of Chinese culture, including traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), Chinese calligraphy and painting, traditional music, and cuisine, alongside displays of exquisite Chinese handicrafts. (Xinhua/Chen Wenxian)
People attend the "Chinese culture night" event in Pembroke, Malta, Sept. 27, 2024. A "Chinese culture night" event was held on Friday evening in Pembroke, eastern Malta, drawing significant participation from the local community.
The event showcased various aspects of Chinese culture, including traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), Chinese calligraphy and painting, traditional music, and cuisine, alongside displays of exquisite Chinese handicrafts. (Xinhua/Chen Wenxian)