by Xinhua writers Xia Yuanyi, Zhang Kun
WARSAW, Nov. 12 (Xinhua) -- Milosz Manasterski, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Polish Information Agency, stressed the need for a more nuanced, objective understanding of China in European media and emphasized the importance of direct reporting to counter misinformation.
He shared these insights in a recent interview with Xinhua after returning from an in-depth visit last month to China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. During his visit, he attended the 6th World Media Summit, engaged with global media leaders and also explored the region's rapidly developing infrastructure and unique cultural landscape.
Recalling his travels in Xinjiang, Manasterski described a region that challenges Western narratives. "In mainstream Western media, there is very little factual information about China's provinces. What does appear often focuses narrowly on Beijing and economic matters," he said, noting that some Central European media outlets are heavily influenced by Western sources that may carry political biases.
He highlighted Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang, as a dynamic fusion of modernity and history. "It's a large city with impressive, modern architecture as well as historic areas," he said.
Despite the region's arid climate and rugged landscape, Manasterski was impressed by the Chinese government's commitment to infrastructure development in Xinjiang.
"Fast travel trains are absolutely revolutionary for Xinjiang," he said, referring to high-speed rail now connecting remote areas. "Journeys that previously took days now take only hours or minutes. It's transformative for both residents and visitors."
Manasterski also visited Turpan, a desert oasis known for its hot climate, vineyards, and innovative green energy initiatives. There he noted how solar energy was being used not only for agriculture but also for large-scale power generation.
"The most deserted places, seemingly unusable, are harnessed for solar and wind energy on a grand scale," he said, highlighting the advancements in green energy, transportation, and agriculture that have improved the region's quality of life.
Reflecting on what he saw in Xinjiang, Manasterski emphaized the urgent need for improved accuracy regarding information about China in Europe, alongside the growing interest in economic and tourism connections.
"Despite the growing economic cooperation of Poland and the European Union with China, there remains a lack of knowledge about what is happening in different regions of China," he said. "This makes partnership-based economic relations challenging, as it's difficult to work with a partner when your understanding is outdated or incomplete."
He also discuss the need for up-to-date information dissemination: "Changes in China occur so quickly that even well-prepared publications may have only historical value after a few years."
Noting that the rapid pace of change in China necessitates constant updates for an accurate picture, Manasterski emphasized the importance of "reliable information about China's regions -- about their cooperation opportunities, tourism, and culture."
Manasterski is confident there is an eager audience in Poland and Europe keen to learn about the real China. "Many Poles and Europeans are interested in Chinese development and culture, from cuisine and traditional medicine to martial arts," he said. "There's a lot of work for us to do, and it's an exciting and inspiring task." ■