People view an autopilot minibus named "ADone" at the 2024 Turin Auto Show in Turin, Italy, Sept. 13, 2024.(Xinhua/Li Jing)
TURIN, Sept. 14 (Xinhua) -- An autopilot minibus named "ADone" stole the spotlight at the ongoing 2024 Turin Auto Show, drawing attention with its design and seamless integration of cutting-edge technology.
Inside the vehicle, a spacious, tech-laden lounge replaces traditional interiors, while interactive displays offering real-time data and entertainment.
"It is full of sense of future," said Vincenzo Diglio, an Italian visitor at the auto show. "I believe this type of car will certainly be a part of the future."
The 6-seat minibus was the latest product of a collaboration between the Chinese developer Guizhou Hankaisi Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd. (PIX Moving) and Italian mobile travel solution provider Tecnocad.
"This partnership is to expand the awareness of the technology here in Italy and in Europe, and explore new application scenarios in diverse markets," Stefano Cini, chief operating officer of Tecnocad, said in an interview with Xinhua.
The minibus has been in trial service around Turin since May, as PIX Moving obtains one of the city's first licenses to test and operate autonomous vehicles on public roads.
"The test is progressing smoothly. In October, we will have another round of testing to wrap up the first phase of trials inside our premises," Cini said, adding that starting from next month, Tecnocad plans to have more tests across Europe.
Cini said he is optimistic about market potential for the autopilot minibus, noting its alignment with the global green transition, as it represents a new form of shared mobility in both urban environments and off-road contexts.
According to a report from McKinsey & Company, as people become more concerned with environmental protection, there is a growing preference for eco-friendly modes of transportation such as public transit. By 2035, the proportion of passenger kilometres traveled by private cars is expected to decline by about 15 percentage points, while public transportation and small mobility devices may become the preferred modes of travel.
Cini said combination of experience, flexibility, creativity, and a forward-thinking mindset is key to developing innovative and reliable products.
"China excels in new technologies like batteries and AI, while Italians bring creativity and flexibility to problem-solving," he said, pointing to Turin's rich history in automotive design and manufacturing. ■
People view an autopilot minibus named "ADone" at the 2024 Turin Auto Show in Turin, Italy, Sept. 13, 2024.(Xinhua/Li Jing)