MADRID, Jan. 30 (Xinhua) -- The Spanish capital city of Madrid now has a rich tradition of Chinese New Year celebrations, which in 2024 will welcome the Year of the Dragon according to the Chinese zodiac.
Madrid City Hall has launched a website to promote a wide range of events in the coming weeks. These will take place both in the Usera District, which is home to many members of Madrid's Chinese community, and in the city as a whole.
One of the first events is an exhibition at the National Anthropology Museum in Madrid called: "People who migrate ... objects that migrate from China."
The exhibition tells the story of people who have migrated to Spain from China, and casts a light on the long history of relations between the two nations.
The Chinese Cultural Center in Madrid is at the heart of many of the Spring Festival celebrations, with events such as a Chinese cookery course, which runs until the middle of February, and the China Taste gastronomy festival.
China Taste has become a regular feature in the Madrid Spring Festival. With several top Chinese restaurants in the city offering special menus in February to celebrate the arrival of the Chinese Lunar New Year, the local people will have the chance to enjoy delicious Chinese food at attractive prices.
The Chinese Cultural Center is also the venue for an art exhibition called "Land and Sea", showcasing the works of 39 Chinese and Spanish artists, as well as workshops in Chinese flower design and culture.
As always, the Usera district in the south of the city will host the traditional parades and firework displays, which attract thousands of people. The emblematic Plaza de Espana will host the 11th annual "Temple Fair," with traditional theatrical performances involving 40 artists, and 16 stands showcasing traditional crafts, gastronomy, art and culture.
Madrid is not the only Spanish city to celebrate Chinese New Year. Zaragoza, which also has a large Chinese community, is hosting events including a parade on Sunday attended by Chinese Ambassador to Spain Yao Jing.
"This visit to Zaragoza has left a deep impression on me," the ambassador told local newspaper El Heraldo de Aragon.
"The people are very friendly towards us and want to work together. There is a lot of confidence in our companies and the Chinese community here," he added. ■