LISBON, June 25 (Xinhua) -- The Dragon Program for Earth observation is set to play a crucial role in "finding ways for future generations to grow up in a sustainable environment," a European Space Agency (ESA) official has said.
In an exclusive interview with Xinhua on the sidelines of the Dragon 5 and Dragon 6 symposium, which started on Monday in Lisbon, Karl Bergquist said, "We are all concerned about what is happening to our Earth, and we realize that we need to find ways to protect it."
The sustainable way to address climate issues is through collaborative efforts, Bergquist, who oversees ESA's space cooperation with China, said, highlighting that Dragon 5 has delivered "high technology and new scientific developments."
"We are delighted with our results in Dragon 5, which is why we are eager to continue with Dragon 6," he noted.
Bergquist expressed confidence in the success of Dragon 6, as the program addresses critical issues for both China and Europe. "Global climate change concerns us all, and if we can use European and Chinese Earth observation to improve our approaches, it will benefit both sides," he said.
Bergquist explained that measurements taken under the Dragon Program are vital for tackling climate issues. For example, Earth observation technology now allows for the precise measurement of glacial melt. "We can see each year that the polar ice caps are shrinking, which is a clear warning for us to be cautious," he emphasized.
The study of atmospheric chemistry is also important, Bergquist said, noting that the Dragon Program enables the examination of harmful particles that can be mitigated to improve air quality in polluted areas.
Bergquist praised the excellent cooperation between European and Chinese teams, who have been working together on the Dragon Program for 20 years. "The cooperation has been very successful, producing great results," he said.
"International cooperation projects are inherently complex, but they are more sustainable because we work together," he stressed.
Organized by China's Ministry of Science and Technology and the ESA, the five-day symposium attracted nearly 300 experts and scholars from China and Europe to discuss the achievements of Dragon 5, and introductions to Dragon 6 projects. ■