VALLETTA, Aug. 14 (Xinhua) -- Investment opportunities in China are expanding as the Chinese economy grows, said Salvu Ellul, chairman of Malta Fish Farming (MFF) Ltd. in a recent interview with Xinhua.
Established in 1993, MFF is now the second-largest bluefin tuna farmer in the Mediterranean region. Ellul highlighted that his company has long sought to explore the vast potential of the Chinese market.
Ellul first visited China in 2004 to investigate opportunities in the tuna business. He returned in 2018 to explore the feasibility of exporting Maltese tuna to China.
"Now, the opportunity has arrived," he said, adding that after extensive negotiations between Maltese and Chinese authorities, bluefin tuna from Malta can now be directly exported to China.
Two of MFF's bluefin tuna were showcased at the 6th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai last November. Ellul said he was impressed by its reception from Chinese consumers.
MFF recently established a joint venture in China with Shandong Far-sea Development Ltd., a subsidiary of Shandong Marine Group. This cooperation covers the bluefin tuna trade, transportation, and reproduction research projects.
Through this partnership, "our business will undoubtedly grow larger in China," Ellul said. With over 20 years of fish farming experience, MFF is eager to share expertise with its Chinese partner as the first Maltese aquaculture company to invest in China.
"I am truly proud and deeply appreciate the opportunity," he added.
China is a trustworthy investment destination, he said, attributing this to China's efforts to promote high-level opening up to attract foreign investment.
Ellul is optimistic about the potential of the Chinese market for Malta's bluefin tuna. His company expects to deliver the first batch of bluefin tuna to China in November.
Ellul noted the growing cooperation opportunities and consumer market in China. "China is seeking high-quality products, and we will deliver premium bluefin tuna for the market," he said.
Currently, Malta's annual output of bluefin tuna totals around 20,000 tons. Ellul anticipates that in the future, around half of MFF's bluefin tuna output will be directly exported to China, and he believes other Maltese farmers will follow suit.
Malta's bluefin tuna exports to China will further enhance and broaden economic and trade cooperation between the two traditionally friendly nations, Ellul said. "This is also a great opportunity to ensure the stable growth of our industry." ■