This photo provided by Vienna Cammarota and taken with a mobile phone shows herself in Turkey during her journey in 2022. (Xinhua)
By Ren Yaoting
PAESTUM, Italy, Aug. 25 (Xinhua) -- Inspired by Marco Polo, who traveled to China along the ancient Silk Road more than 700 years ago, Italian traveler Vienna Cammarota set off from the legendary explorer's hometown Venice on April 26, 2022, to retrace the route on foot.
With a simple backpack and two trekking poles, 74-year-old Cammarota has covered over 20,000 km and passed through dozens of countries. Before entering China, the last stop of her journey to the East, she returned to her southern Italian hometown of Paestum in August for a short break.
The journey is more than just a personal challenge, Cammarota told Xinhua in a recent interview. It is a mission to witness firsthand the impact of China's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and to share the experiences with the world, she added.
Cammarota's fascination with China began over two decades ago when a Chinese student stayed in her home, igniting her interest in the country's rich cultural heritage.
Throughout her trip, Cammarota said she witnessed the transformation of the ancient trade route into a corridor of economic and cultural exchange. "I have seen the bridges, highways, and railways built under the BRI, which connect countries in a way that echoes the Silk Road's historic role in facilitating trade and cultural exchange."
Marveled at the Peljesac Bridge in Croatia, a project built by a Chinese consortium, led by the China Road and Bridge Corporation, Cammarota said the bridge not only connected the country's southern and northern regions but also shortened the distance between the island of Korcula, where Marco Polo once lived, to the land. "What an amazing work," Cammarota posted on Facebook.
In October 2023, Cammarota reached Tajikistan, where she visited the China-Tajikistan highway project. The infrastructure project, once completed, is expected to enhance regional connectivity and bring new opportunities. Cammarota noted that she observed how this project embodies the spirit of the BRI --"bringing hope and development to the communities along its path."
Cammarota said she plans to spend two years in China, visiting key stops along the ancient Silk Road, including Kashgar, Kuqa and Turpan in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region; Dunhuang, Zhangye and Jiayuguan in Gansu Province; and the historic city of Xi'an. She is particularly eager to visit Suzhou, the "Venice of the East," as described by Marco Polo.
For Cammarota, this journey is more than retracing Marco Polo's footsteps. She said she hopes her travels will help people in Italy and the West see the true beauty and greatness of China.
"People in the West often view China through political lens, without truly understanding its cultural richness and modern achievements," she said in the interview. "The real China is a land filled with numerous UNESCO heritage sites, cutting-edge technology, and a harmonious balance between urban development and natural preservation."
"The BRI reflects the idea that one should not only strive for personal gain but also work for the benefit of society as a whole," a concept deeply rooted in Chinese culture, she noted. "This spirit of mutual support has long been forgotten in the West."
Describing herself as an ambassador of cultural exchange and modern-day Marco Polo, Cammarota noted that "I want people to know about Marco Polo and the Silk Road, but I also want to send a message to women of my age -- it's never too late to pursue your dreams." ■
Vienna Cammarota checks her gear at her home in Paestum, southern Italy, Aug. 15, 2024. (Photo by Leonardo Lombroso/Xinhua)
Vienna Cammarota tries her gear at her home in Paestum, southern Italy, Aug. 15, 2024. (Photo by Leonardo Lombroso/Xinhua)
Vienna Cammarota is seen at her home in Paestum, southern Italy, Aug. 15, 2024. (Photo by Leonardo Lombroso/Xinhua)
Vienna Cammarota tries her gear at her home in Paestum, southern Italy, Aug. 15, 2024. (Photo by Leonardo Lombroso/Xinhua)
This photo provided by Vienna Cammarota and taken with a mobile phone shows herself in Turkey during her journey in 2022. (Xinhua)