This photo taken on Feb. 2, 2024 shows the image of a dragon projected on cliffs in Davos, Switzerland. This was the projection work by Swiss light artist Gerry Hofstetter.
In the crisp stillness of a freezing night at the Swiss Alpine town of Davos, a lone figure stood on the snow-capped peaks, wielding not traditional brushes or pigments but beams of light that sliced through the darkness like blades. (Photo by Mike Kessler/Xinhua)
by Xinhua writer Zeng Yan
ZURICH, Switzerland, Feb. 11 (Xinhua) -- In the crisp stillness of a freezing night at the Swiss Alpine town of Davos, a lone figure stood on the snow-capped peaks, wielding not traditional brushes or pigments but beams of light that sliced through the darkness like blades.
This visionary was Gerry Hofstetter, a light artist, weaving magic with beams against the vast canvas of the mountains and clouds earlier this month. That's how the Swiss artist celebrated the Chinese New Year of the Dragon.
With meticulous precision, the artist projected a majestic dragon onto the towering cliffs and thick clouds, its sinuous form undulating against the stark backdrop of the alpine landscape.
"That's the powerful picture I wanted to show people. The dragon is coming," Hofstetter said with excitement, recalling the moment when his light installation took shape.
The frigid air seemed to shimmer with the energy of the light spectacle, transforming the mountains into an otherworldly realm where the mythical creature came to life.
Hofstetter stressed that the work needed meteorological and astronomical conditions to align at a precise moment, considering wind, clouds and the moon's position.
"That was among the toughest projections in my three-decade career," he said, noting a strong snowstorm on the Alps that night.
Speaking of how he conceived the idea, the 62-year-old attributed his inspiration to Chinese culture. The Swiss artist said he wanted to create a dragon-themed projection to welcome the Year of the Dragon based on his previous work, "Tiger on Eiger," which celebrated the Year of the Tiger in 2022 and symbolized the enduring friendship between Switzerland and China.
He added that the dragon was even more dedicated to honoring the long-lasting friendship between the two, as next year will mark the 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations.
In 1950, Switzerland was one of the first Western countries to recognize the People's Republic of China. Since 2010, China has been Switzerland's biggest trading partner in Asia and third largest globally after the EU and the United States.
Hofstetter believes the dragon is the most powerful Chinese zodiac, symbolizing strength, prosperity and fortune. "I was happy to see the combination of this symbolism and Switzerland-China friendship through my light art," he said.
The light artist hoped his visual work could further enhance people-to-people ties between Switzerland and China and encourage the two peoples to understand each other better.
"Light is hope. Without light, there is darkness. Without mutual understanding, there is no dialogue," Hofstetter said. "That's the message I always want to convey." ■
This photo taken on Feb. 2, 2024 shows the image of a dragon projected on clouds in Davos, Switzerland. This was the projection work by Swiss light artist Gerry Hofstetter.
In the crisp stillness of a freezing night at the Swiss Alpine town of Davos, a lone figure stood on the snow-capped peaks, wielding not traditional brushes or pigments but beams of light that sliced through the darkness like blades. (Photo by Mike Kessler/Xinhua)
This photo taken on Feb. 2, 2024 shows the image of a dragon projected on clouds in Davos, Switzerland. This was the projection work by Swiss light artist Gerry Hofstetter.
In the crisp stillness of a freezing night at the Swiss Alpine town of Davos, a lone figure stood on the snow-capped peaks, wielding not traditional brushes or pigments but beams of light that sliced through the darkness like blades. (Photo by Mike Kessler/Xinhua)
Swiss light artist Gerry Hofstetter speaks during an interview with Xinhua at his studio in Zurich, Switzerland, Feb. 7, 2024.
In the crisp stillness of a freezing night at the Swiss Alpine town of Davos, a lone figure stood on the snow-capped peaks, wielding not traditional brushes or pigments but beams of light that sliced through the darkness like blades. (Xinhua/Chen Binjie)
Swiss light artist Gerry Hofstetter works at his studio in Zurich, Switzerland, Feb. 7, 2024.
In the crisp stillness of a freezing night at the Swiss Alpine town of Davos, a lone figure stood on the snow-capped peaks, wielding not traditional brushes or pigments but beams of light that sliced through the darkness like blades. (Xinhua/Chen Binjie)
 