BARCELONA, Spain, Sept. 14 (Xinhua) -- Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez's recent visit to China could be a "positive" step toward calming trade frictions between the European Union (EU) and China, a Spanish political expert told Xinhua.
The prime minister's meetings with Chinese leaders and high-ranking officials could be interpreted as a positive gesture in efforts to help calm tensions, said Just Castillo, professor of East Asian Studies at the Autonomous University of Barcelona.
Sanchez said at a press briefing before concluding his visit to China on Wednesday that Spain is reconsidering its position on the EU's import tariffs on Chinese-made electric vehicles (EVs).
He called on the EU member states and the European Commission to reconsider their positions, stressing that Brussels and Beijing need to find a compromise that avoids a trade war and seeks solutions.
"As always, it is a matter of talking about it and seeking solutions within the framework of EU-China bilateral relations," the professor said.
Castillo said Sanchez's visit "offers opportunities for dialogue, for negotiation, and for the direct exchange of points of view without intermediaries."
On Thursday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Mao Ning said, "We need to work together and jointly face challenges, which will benefit our companies and consumers and turbocharge the green transition in China, Europe, and even the world."
Castillo stated that China views Spain as a crucial economy within the EU and a significant EU member state.
Sanchez's visit on Sept. 8-11 should be seen "mainly in economic terms," pointing to the prime minister's participation in the China-Spain Business Forum and his meetings with China's main EV manufacturers, he added.
"These visits can provide certain visibility to Spanish companies in that market or in a particular city," the professor said.
The European Commission's plan to impose hefty tariffs on Chinese-made EVs has sparked concerns among industry experts and business insiders across Europe.
Critics argue that the move may worsen the competitiveness issues of the EU, hinder the region's green transition and escalate trade tensions with China, instead of protecting the European auto industry as intended. ■