Marko Femc, CEO of Plan-net Solar, reacts during an interview with Xinhua in Preserje, Brezovica, Slovenia, Feb. 1, 2024. (Xinhua/Zhou Yue)
LJUBLJANA, Feb. 14 (Xinhua) -- The CEO of the largest importer of electric vehicles (EV) from China to Slovenia has said that the Slovenian and European markets hold great potential for Chinese companies.
Plan-net Solar began doing business with China more than 10 years ago, when it started importing Chinese solar panels, the company's CEO Marko Femc told Xinhua in a recent interview. The firm is now focused on photovoltaic systems, electric vehicles and charging infrastructure.
"We focused on Chinese electric vehicle brands because we saw they (the Chinese) are committed to developing this market," said Femc.
Over the past decade, Femc has visited China several times. Although in the past China was not a major car producer, some Chinese firms had very strong research and development in the electric vehicle sector, he said, adding that it made him believe that in a couple of years, China could become the leader in this field.
Plan-net Solar started importing MG and Maxus models in 2019, and has since brought Dongfeng models and other EV brands such as Aiways, Voyah, and Forthing to Slovenia. In 2022, due to sales growth and the separation of activities, Plan-net Solar founded a new company, Plan-net Avto, to focus on electric vehicles and related services.
Last year almost 49,000 new passenger cars were sold in Slovenia, of which 4,330 were electric cars, according to the Drivers' Association of Slovenia (AMZS). The number of new electric cars has almost doubled from the year before, helped by new state measures which increased subsidies for electric vehicles from 3,500-4,500 euros to 4,500-6,500 euros from June 2023 onwards.
Femc said that the MG model represents 75 percent of Chinese cars sold by Plan-net Avto, mainly because it was the first model that entered the Slovenian market, but also because of its quality, design and favorable price. About 20 percent of MG cars sold are electric, and the Chinese electric car MG4 was the 11th best-selling model in Slovenia last year.
"I am sure that Chinese electric vehicles have a bright future in Slovenia and the whole of Europe, with their sales increasing very fast," said Femc.
"Chinese brands are not looking for short-term profit but for long-term development of the (Slovenian and European) market," he added.
Femc said that Chinese car makers have an advantage over their European rivals because they started developing electric cars several years ago, when Europeans were still focused on gasoline cars. The Chinese are also working on the development of the whole chain in car-making, including batteries.
Slovenia's market has welcomed Chinese cars, but Femc noted that Chinese car producers are facing global anti-dumping issues, with "the European Union (EU) trying to make it difficult to bring Chinese cars to Europe."
Femc said that the EU could suffer if it increases tariffs on Chinese cars. When the EU introduced tariffs on solar panels from China a few years ago, it blocked the European market for several years, he underlined. China may also introduce countermeasures for European car producers who make a lot of cars in China.
He urged Europe to increase research and development in the sector, rather than taking protectionist measures.
According to an EU regulation passed last year, all new cars and vans registered in the EU from 2035 onwards will have to have zero emissions, which is expected to greatly enhance sales of electric cars in the coming decade.
Femc said that Chinese electric vehicles would prosper more in Europe if Chinese firms opened subsidiaries in Europe, employing Europeans who understand the market.
He also suggested that Chinese companies should work on logistics in this market, and find strong local partners for sales and production.
"Some Chinese cars will need to be produced in Europe, partly because of the costs," said Femc. ■
This photo taken on Feb. 1, 2024 shows a Chinese electric car MG4 on display at an MG sales center in Ljubljana, Slovenia. (Xinhua/Zhou Yue)