ROME, Aug. 1 (Xinhua) -- Riding on the road in Beijing on Thursday, Italian cyclist Alberto Fiorin felt surreal reflecting on the past 98 days, during which he covered 10,250 kilometers by bike, winding past cities and villages, grasslands, and deserts.
"I looked at the winding Ming Great Wall; it was covered with dirt and wild grass, stretching to the horizon," the 64-year-old described the view of Jiayuguan in northwest China's Gansu province in his diary: "It was a breathtaking glimpse."
This year marks the 700th anniversary of the death of the renowned Italian explorer Marco Polo. On April 25th, two Venetians, Fiorin and Dino Facchinetti, began their bicycle journey to honor him.
Still feeling the chill of late spring, they started in Venice, Marco Polo's hometown, traveling across the Eurasian continent and passing through Sofia, Istanbul, Samarkand, Almaty, and China's Xinjiang. The journey, more than a quarter of the equator in length, had them riding for an average of 10 hours each day. On August 1st, they arrived in Beijing during the height of summer.
MARCO POLO ON BICYCLES
Fiorin and Facchinetti wore red cycling T-shirts printed with "Marco Polo a Pedali" in Italian, meaning "Marco Polo on Bicycles."
"We wanted to retrace Marco Polo's route to honor this great Venetian traveler," Fiorin told Xinhua. "Marco Polo traveled very slowly, on foot, on horseback, even by boat. We also wanted to use a slow way, which allows you to see the scenery, conquering the road meter by meter. The landscape along the way will be unforgettably inscribed in your eyes and heart."
Born in Venice and having attended a high school named after Marco Polo, Fiorin grew up immersed in the cultural atmosphere of this legendary figure. "What impressed me most about him was his curiosity and unbiased exploration of the world."
"I've always wanted to ride my bicycle to China, a distant, enchanting country with an ancient history, just like Marco Polo did." As a writer, traveler, and cycling enthusiast, the Venetian had long anticipated his journey to the East.
He is the president of the 111-year-old Venice Cycling and Bicycle Association, while Facchinetti, 67, serves as its secretary. As one of Venice's oldest cycling enthusiast organizations, the association frequently organizes various cycling races and travel events to promote this eco-friendly and healthy sport and travel method.
In 2001, Fiorin and nine other cyclists attempted the ride from Venice to Beijing, but an accident forced him to quit the journey at Jesolo, a town near Venice.
"This year marks the 700th anniversary of Marco Polo's death. Let's cycle to China!" Fiorin proposed to Facchinetti.
"Let's go!" Facchinetti, who had known Fiorin for 20 years, agreed without hesitation.
However, 23 years later, the over ten thousand kilometers' distance and challenges had not diminished for the two cyclists over 60 years old. Fully aware of the difficulty of this journey, they underwent rigorous training. "I firmly believe we can overcome all difficulties and reach our destination," Fiorin told Xinhua.
FASCINATING EAST
They encountered extremely tough stretches in the desert regions. Fiorin recalled that in Shanshan County, Xinjiang, the temperature was already over 30 degrees Celsius when they set off at 7 a.m.. By 9 a.m., the thermometer on the handlebars read 43 degrees Celsius.
"It's so fascinating: on one side are the very dry famous 'Huoyan (Flaming) Mountains,' and on the other, endless green and lush vineyards. The climate is dry, and the temperature difference is huge, producing world-famous raisins," Fiorin wrote in his travel diary on July 1st.
Besides the scorching heat, the language barrier was another challenge. So far, the only Chinese words they can say are "thank you," "hello," and "no, thanks."
"Sometimes, even with translation tools, it's hard to communicate," Fiorin said. "Despite this, I often feel the hospitality and generosity of the Chinese people."
This reminded him of Marco Polo, who set off from Venice at the age of 17, knowing very little about the languages but using sincerity to understand different cultures and customs, becoming a messenger of East-West cultural exchange.
"As long as they understand the problem you're facing, they will seriously help you find a solution," Fiorin shared an incident where their bicycles broke down in Gansu Province. The hotel staff first helped call a taxi, but since the taxi was too small to fit the bicycles, they helped with the hotel's trolley to transport the luggage and bicycles to a nearby station, and offered to explain the situation to the bus driver, who finally allowed them to reach Lanzhou smoothly.
That day, Fiorin wrote in his travel diary, "Four Chinese people took action to help two Italian cyclists without expecting anything in return, refusing our rewards... it was simply unbelievable."
CYCLING TO CONNECT CIVILIZATIONS
From Xinjiang to Beijing, the two cyclists traveled through desert oases and towering skyscrapers. It was Facchinetti's first time in China. "As we rode along, I was amazed to discover how generous and helpful the Chinese people are."
Fiorin first visited China in 1987, and 37 years later, "Huge changes in China have astonished me."
"Electric vehicles are everywhere here: buses, electric bikes, tricycles, private cars. I've never seen such scenes in Europe," Fiorin listed the novelties along the way, including the wide, clean streets, well-maintained public facilities like parks, and the significantly enhanced environmental awareness of the people.
Throughout the 98 days, he continuously updated his travel diary on Instagram, attracting a large number of followers.
"By observing the world through cycling and writing, I hope to become a messenger between different cultures, like Marco Polo," Fiorin said.
Their dream was finally realized on Thursday. "This journey is unpredictable, like this country, which constantly surprises you," Fiorin said. "Here, you will find everything and the opposite of everything, often intricately connected, and I am repeatedly captivated by it." ■