An actor performs the poetry drama "Ein Heldenleben -- Cai Lun", a Chinese drama about the legendary inventor of paper-making, in London, Britain on Oct. 17, 2024. (Xinhua/Li Ying)
LONDON, Oct. 18 (Xinhua) -- A Chinese drama about the legendary inventor of paper-making, who lived nearly 2,000 years ago, premiered in London on Thursday night, captivating the audience with a sensory spectacle that blends Western classical music with elements of Chinese culture.
At LSO St Luke's, two actors dressed in Peking Opera attire delivered their recitative lines in the traditional style, accompanied by an orchestra performing Richard Strauss's symphonic poem Ein Heldenleben.
"I think it's incredibly unique and imaginative, and I'm amazed at how the drama of the story seems to fit so amazingly well with the music," Alison Kiln told Xinhua after watching the show, adding that she had never experienced a live performance as "amazing" as this before.
Based on Strauss's iconic composition, the symphony poetry drama "Ein Heldenleben -- Cai Lun" offers a glimpse into the life and emotional struggles of Cai Lun, the inventor of the paper-making process during China's Han Dynasty (202 B.C.-220 A.D.).
Running for just one night, the show was co-presented by the Chen Xinyi Art Centre from Shanghai and the Fidelio Orchestra.
Speaking to Xinhua before the show, Raffaello Morales, conductor and founder of the London-based orchestra, said that while it is not the first instance of combining different art forms, the integration of symphony and Peking Opera represents a new exploration. When he first learned about this potential collaboration in 2023, he found it to be a "very interesting proposition."
"At the end of the day, I think the tension that you have on stage always brings something creative and something worthwhile," he said.
Chen Xinyi, the director of the production, told Xinhua that she believed the show would be "aesthetically satisfying" and hoped it would help people from overseas learn about the great individuals of China, their personalities, and their inspiring spirits.
The 86-year-old director and playwright has been involved in over 150 productions throughout her career. For the past two decades, she has explored the fusion of drama and symphony, resulting in nine productions of symphonic poetry drama.
Created in 2020, the production has toured several cities in China, including Shanghai and Hangzhou. ■
Actors perform the poetry drama "Ein Heldenleben -- Cai Lun", a Chinese drama about the legendary inventor of paper-making, in London, Britain on Oct. 17, 2024. (Xinhua/Li Ying)