Title: Beijing, Berlin vow to bolster cooperation
Date: Dec 3, 2024

Foreign Minister Wang Yi shakes hands with German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock in Beijing on Monday during the seventh round of the China-Germany Strategic Dialogue on Diplomacy and Security. (XUE WEI/FOREIGN MINISTRY)
Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Monday urged Germany to view its relations with China with a correct strategic perception, saying that the differences between the two countries should not become an obstacle to their cooperation, while the disagreements should not serve as reasons for confrontation.
Wang, who is also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, spoke to German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock during the seventh round of the China-Germany Strategic Dialogue on Diplomacy and Security in Beijing. Baerbock began a two-day visit to China on Monday.
Wang emphasized that the European Union's imposition of high anti-subsidy duties on Chinese-made electric vehicles violates the principles of fair competition and free trade, becoming a prominent issue in current China-EU relations.
He said that competition should be fair, rather than a zero-sum game.
Wang expressed the hope that Germany and the EU would view China's development in an objective and rational manner, adopt a proactive and pragmatic policy toward China, and resolve trade disputes through dialogue and consultation.
On bilateral ties, Wang pointed out that China's policy toward Germany remains stable and consistent, and China has considered Germany an important cooperative partner throughout the 52 years since they established diplomatic relations.
China-Germany relations have generally maintained a positive momentum, bringing significant benefits to both peoples and serving as a stabilizer in China-EU relations and the international landscape at large, he added.
Wang highlighted China's new policies and measures in reform and opening-up, which, he said, have been well received and welcomed by the international community, including the business community in Germany, paving the way for even broader prospects for pragmatic cooperation between the two countries.
As the world's second- and third-largest economies, China and Germany should overcome disturbances and eliminate obstacles, always adhere to dialogue and cooperation, reject the outdated Cold War mentality, jointly address external risks and address global challenges, Wang said.
Both countries should strive to be promoters of pragmatic cooperation, advocates of open development, and exemplars of multilateralism, showcasing the responsibilities of major countries in the complex international landscape, he added.
Wang called on both countries to uphold mutual respect and understanding to develop mutually beneficial cooperation.
Sino-German relations are not directed against any third party and should not be influenced by a third party, he noted.
Highlighting the vast scope of cooperation between the two countries, Baerbock said that Germany attaches great importance to its relations with China, and it firmly adheres to the one-China policy.
She noted that maintaining candid dialogue and enhancing strategic communication with China are of great significance in a turbulent world and conducive to steering bilateral relations in the right direction, and contribute to global peace and stability.
Germany appreciates China's proactive role in responding to climate change, she said.
Baerbock said that Germany supports the EU and China in continuing negotiations on the anti-subsidy issue of Chinese-made electric vehicles in order to find a solution acceptable to both sides.
The two foreign ministers also exchanged views on the Ukraine crisis.
Baerbock expressed the hope that China, as a cooperative partner of Europe, would play an active role in resolving the crisis. Wang elaborated on China's commitment to promoting peace talks.
