Title: China, ROK express confidence in strong relations
Date: Dec 25, 2024

China on Tuesday reaffirmed its commitment to the principle of non-interference in the domestic affairs of other nations, expressing confidence in the wisdom and capability of the people in the Republic of Korea, or ROK, to effectively address recent domestic challenges.
Foreign Minister Wang Yi made these remarks during a phone call with the ROK's Foreign Minister Cho Tae-yul, emphasizing that strengthening China-ROK relations serves the interests of both peoples.
Despite a challenging environment marked by rising protectionism and unilateralism, Wang noted that bilateral trade has continued to grow, and the two neighbors' interests are further intertwined, which demonstrates the solid foundation and broad prospects for bilateral economic and trade cooperation.
Beijing welcomes enterprises from the ROK continuing to deepen their engagement in the Chinese market and expand investment, Wang said, expressing its readiness to enhance coordination with Seoul to jointly maintain the stability and smooth operation of global industrial and supply chains.
Cho said that the ROK values the positive momentum in bilateral ties and remains committed to advancing the strategic cooperative partnership between the two countries.
Seoul is willing to strengthen strategic communication with Beijing, to deepen high-level exchanges and interactions across various fields, and take more measures to facilitate personnel exchanges between the two nations, he said.
The ROK is pleased with the steady expansion of economic and trade cooperation between the two countries, and looks forward to achieving more mutually beneficial outcomes to enhance the well-being of both peoples, he added.
Both sides reaffirmed their commitment to strengthening trilateral cooperation between China, Japan and the ROK, recognizing its potential to contribute to the development of the three nations as well as to regional peace, stability, and prosperity.
Beijing expressed its support for the ROK in hosting the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Economic Leaders' Meeting in 2025, with Seoul expressing gratitude and a commitment to enhancing communication and coordination with Beijing.
The two sides also exchanged views on the Korean Peninsula issue. Wang reiterated China's consistent position of resolving the issue through dialogue and consultation, pledging to continue playing a constructive role in safeguarding peace and stability on the Peninsula.
