Title: China-Brazil ties seen as model for nations
Date: Nov 18, 2024

The relationship between China and Brazil has established a model for major developing countries to promote win-win cooperation and pursue a shared future, President Xi Jinping said in a signed article published on Sunday in Brazilian media outlet Folha de S. Paulo.
Since the two countries established diplomatic relations 50 years ago, China-Brazil ties have withstood the test of a changing international landscape and become increasingly mature and vibrant, he said. This dynamic relationship has not only boosted the development of the two nations, but also contributed significantly to world peace and stability, he added.
The article was published as Xi is set to attend the 19th G20 Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and also make a state visit to the country.
"Our relationship has always been a forerunner in the relations between China and fellow developing nations," he said in the article.
Xi called on Beijing and Brasilia to intensify exchanges at all levels and across all fields, and continuously strengthen strategic mutual trust and cement the political foundation of the bilateral relations.
He called on the two sides to create new growth drivers for mutually beneficial cooperation, promote synergy between the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative and Brazil's development strategies, and foster more exemplary projects that deliver lasting benefits to the two peoples.
Bilateral mutually beneficial cooperation, with no shortage of bright spots and fruitful outcomes in the areas of agriculture, infrastructure, energy, resources, green development, technological innovation and finance, has greatly promoted economic and social progress in both countries, Xi said.
China has been Brazil's largest trading partner for 15 consecutive years and is a major source of foreign investment in Brazil.
Statistics show that China's annual imports from Brazil in the past three years have stayed above $100 billion, while bilateral trade volume reached $181.53 billion in 2023, up 6.1 percent year-on-year.
Xi noted that China and Brazil share a natural affinity for and a common pursuit of all that is beautiful. In recent years, music, dance and other forms of art have become a new bridge connecting the two peoples, helping to enhance amity and mutual understanding, he said.
"Brazil's cute capybaras, bossa nova music, samba dance and capoeira(a martial art) are immensely popular in China, while China's traditional festivals like Spring Festival and its cultural heritages such as traditional Chinese medicine are increasingly well-known among Brazilians," he said.
Xi recalled the letters he received in the past couple of days from over 100 Brazilian friends from across sectors, saying that he was touched by their fervent desire to strengthen the friendship between the two nations.
China and Brazil should work together with other Global South countries to resolutely safeguard the common interests of developing nations, address global challenges through cooperation, and promote a global governance system that is fairer and more equitable, he said.
The G20 should honor the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and provide more funding, technology and capacity-building support to Global South countries, Xi said.
"I am confident that the Rio de Janeiro Summit will achieve fruitful outcomes and leave a distinct Brazilian mark on G20's history," he added.
