Title: China, Japan reach 10 important consensuses at the 2nd meeting of High-Level Consultation Mechanism on People-to-People and Cultural Exchanges
Date: Dec 26, 2024

Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Japanese Foreign Minister Takeshi Iwaya on Wednesday attended the second meeting of High-Level Consultation Mechanism on People-to-People and Cultural Exchanges between China and Japan, during which 10 important consensuses were reached, according to a statement released by the Chinese foreign ministry on Wednesday.
The two countries will vigorously promote youth exchanges and visits, encouraging and supporting study trips between China and Japan.
They will deepen cooperation in education, strengthen the exchange of students, and support the establishment of sister schools and inter-school cooperation between primary and secondary schools and universities, read the statement.
Tourism cooperation will be supported and more facilitation measures will be introduced to facilitate mutual visits of tourists.
China and Japan will build more platforms for exchanges between their sister cities, and make good use of mechanisms and platforms such as the China-Japan Governor Forum and the China-Japan-South Korea Cultural Exchange Year to expand friendly exchanges at the sub-national and people-to-people levels.
Both sides will strengthen sports exchange and cooperation, mutually supporting the successful hosting of important sporting events such as the 2025 Asian Winter Games in Harbin, capital of Northeast China's Heilongjiang Province and the 20th Asian Games Aichi-Nagoya in 2026.
China and Japan will support continued cooperation in the film, music, publishing, animation, and gaming industries, facilitate the exchange and visits of high-level artistic troupes, and promote the mutual translation and publication of classic works from both countries.
China and Japan will also strengthen cooperation in media and think tanks, encouraging them to play a positive role in bilateral relations and focus on improving public opinion and the media environment. Both countries will support new media exchanges and cooperation, encourage positive online creators from both countries to interact with each other.
The two sides will engage in exchanges between women's organizations to share experiences on promoting the joint development of men and women. China will invite the Japanese side to participate in the global women's summit commemorating the thirtieth anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women (Beijing, 1995).
China and Japan will work together to make the Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan, a platform for communication and friendship between the peoples of two countries.
China supports Japan in hosting the event, while the Japanese side welcomes China's participation and will provide assistance in the construction and operation of the China Pavilion.
China and Japan will also hold the third meeting of the China-Japan high-level consultation mechanism on people-to-people exchanges in Japan at an appropriate time.
