Title: Chinese, Iranian FMs hold talks in Beijing
Date: Dec 29, 2024

China has called on the international community to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries in the Middle East, while hoping that parties concerned can play a constructive role in facilitating peace and stability in the region.
Foreign Minister Wang Yi made the remarks on Saturday during talks with Iranian Foreign Minister Seyyed Abbas Araghchi in Beijing. Araghchi landed in China on Friday for a two-day visit to discuss bilateral, regional and international issues of mutual concern.
Wang emphasized that the Middle East belongs to the people in the region and should not be reduced to an arena for major power rivalry or a victim of external geopolitical competition.
He called for an immediate ceasefire, alleviation of humanitarian crises, a commitment to political solutions and resumption of talks to transform the region from chaos to order.
China urged the international community to respect legitimate and reasonable concerns, and the rich historical and cultural traditions of nations in the Middle East, as well as honor the choices made independently by the people of the region, Wang said.
He warned against imposing external willingness on the people in the region, interfering in their affairs, or even resorting to sanctions, pressure, confrontation and force.
Wang also reaffirmed China's unwavering support for Middle East countries in their independent pursuit of development paths, resolving conflicts through dialogue and consultation, and efforts to safeguard sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity while resisting external interference.
On the Iran nuclear issue, China has always advocated on resolving the issue through political and diplomatic means and preserving the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, and encouraged all the relevant parties to play a constructive role in resuming dialogue and negotiations, Wang said.
He voiced firm opposition to sanctions and pressure as well as support for Iran in safeguarding its legitimate rights and interests.
Araghchi appreciated China's significant contributions to facilitating and preserving the JCPOA and expressed Iran's readiness to maintain close communication with China.
