Title: China pledges full support for Africa
Date: Jan 11, 2025

Foreign Minister Wang Yi has pledged Beijing's full support and military aid for Africa in upholding peace and stability on the continent.
Wang, who is also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the statement on Thursday during a joint news conference with Nigerian Foreign Minister Yusuf Maitama Tuggar in Abuja, the capital of Nigeria, before he wrapped up his Africa tour.
He said that China is willing to work with African nations to make the Global Security Initiative take root on the continent and jointly advance modernization with peace and security.
Wang began his trip to Africa on Monday, visiting Namibia, the Republic of Congo and Chad before winding up his tour in Nigeria, where he met with Nigerian President Bola Ahmed Tinubu and held talks with his Nigerian counterpart Tuggar.
"China will firmly support Africans in addressing African issues in the African way. African people are the real masters of this continent," Wang said.
He expressed China's opposition to external interference in African countries' internal affairs in any form, as well as the country's support for the African Union and other regional organizations in playing constructive roles.
Wang pledged 1 billion yuan ($136 million) in military aid to Africa and said China would help train 6,000 troops and 1,000 police officers across the continent.
Noting China is committed to steadfast support for Africa in safeguarding its legitimate rights and interests, Wang said the nation practices genuine multilateralism and opposes hegemony and power politics disrupting Africa.
"At the United Nations Security Council, China will always be in favor of Africa," he said.
Wang reiterated Beijing's willingness to work with Africa to address insecurity and achieve long-term stability through development.
He also expressed the country's support for Nigeria in rallying countries in the region to achieve strength through unity, build synergy through reconciliation, and promote security through cooperation.
Bilateral ties
On bilateral ties, Wang said that over half a century since the two countries established diplomatic relations, China and Nigeria have consistently deepened their friendship and pragmatic cooperation based on mutual respect and equality, becoming a successful example of South-South cooperation and a significant benchmark for China-Africa cooperation.
He called on both countries to adhere to the "strategic nature" of their relationship, continue to steadfastly support each other on issues of core concerns, and always be good brothers who trust each other.
This year marks the 35th consecutive year that the Chinese foreign minister has visited Africa on the first overseas trip at the start of the year. Speaking to the Chinese media about the four-nation Africa tour on Friday, Wang said such tradition, as a distinctive feature of China's diplomacy, has remained consistent for 35 years, unwavering and unparalleled in the history of international relations.
"By upholding this tradition, we aim to demonstrate to the world that, regardless of changes in the international landscape, China remains true to its original aspirations," Wang said.
"China will always be the most trustworthy friend of African brothers and sisters, the most reliable partner for African countries in their pursuit of development and revitalization, the strongest backing for Africa on the international stage, and it consistently places Africa in the priority and important position within China's overall diplomatic framework."
Observers said that in a world plagued by conflicts, protectionism, political turmoil and sluggish economic growth, the China-Africa relationship has solidified through a joint vision of promoting peace in the world, showing respect to each other, increasing economic engagement and pursuing win-win cooperation.
"Wang's four-nation trip would open new horizons for the China-Africa cooperation, delivering a message of peace, harmony and mutually beneficial development," Azhar Azam, a Pakistani freelancer who works as a market and business analyst, wrote in an op-ed piece published by the website of China Global Television Network.
