Title: CPC leadership holds meeting on 2025 economic, Party conduct and anti-corruption work
Date: Dec 11, 2024

The Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee on Monday held a meeting to analyze and study the economic work in 2025. A work report of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and the National Commission of Supervision was heard at the meeting, at which work on Party conduct and the fight against corruption in 2025 was also studied and arranged. Xi Jinping, general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, chaired the meeting.
It was emphasized at the meeting that this year is key to achieving the goals and tasks outlined in the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-2025). The CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core has united and led the entire Party and the Chinese people of all ethnic groups to respond calmly, implement comprehensive measures, and ensure the overall stability and steady progress of the economy. China's economic strength, scientific and technological capabilities, as well as composite national strength have continued to grow. New quality productive forces have been developed steadily, reform and opening-up deepened, risks in key areas defused in an orderly and effective manner, and people's livelihood strongly and effectively safeguarded. The major goals and tasks for economic and social development in 2024 are expected to be accomplished.
It was stressed at the meeting that to do a good job in economic work next year, China must follow the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, fully implement the guiding principles of the 20th CPC National Congress and the second and third plenary sessions of the 20th CPC Central Committee, adhere to the general principle of pursuing progress while ensuring stability, fully and accurately implement the new development philosophy, accelerate the forging of a new development dynamic, firmly promote high-quality development, and further deepen reform in an all-round way. China must also promote high-level opening up, develop a modern industrial system, secure both development and security, implement more proactive macro policies, expand domestic demand, and promote integrated development of scientific and technological innovation and industrial innovation, according to the meeting. Efforts must be made to secure the steady development of the real estate and stock markets, guard against and defuse risks and external shocks in key areas, and stabilize expectations and stimulate vitality, so as to promote sustained economic recovery. Work must be done to continuously improve people's living standards, maintain social harmony and stability, accomplish the goals and tasks of the 14th Five-Year Plan with high quality, and lay a solid foundation for getting the 15th Five-Year Plan off to a good start.
It was pointed out at the meeting that next year, we will continue to seek progress while maintaining stability, promote stability through progress, uphold fundamental principles and break new ground, establish the new before abolishing the old, pay attention to integrated reforms, and strengthen coordination. We will implement a more proactive fiscal policy and moderately loose monetary policy, enrich and improve the policy toolkit, strengthen unconventional counter-cyclical adjustment, intensify the coordination of various policies, and make macro regulation more forward-looking, targeted and effective. We need to vigorously boost consumption, improve investment efficiency, and expand domestic demand on all fronts. We should use scientific and technological innovation to lead the development of new quality productive forces and build a modern industrial system. We should give full play to the leading role of economic structural reform and ensure that landmark reform measures are effectively implemented. We will further promote high-level opening up and secure the steady growth of foreign trade and foreign investment. Efforts should focus on preventing and addressing risks in key areas to ensure that no systemic risks occur. It is essential to consolidate and expand the achievements in poverty alleviation, promote coordinated new urbanization and rural revitalization, and promote integrated urban-rural development. Regional strategies must be implemented in an intensified manner to boost regional development vitality. Efforts should also be made to reduce carbon emissions, curb pollution, expand green development, and accelerate the comprehensive green transformation of economic and social development. Furthermore, measures must be intensified to secure and improve people's wellbeing so as to boost people's sense of gain, happiness and security.
It was noted at the meeting that the Party's leadership over economic work must be strengthened to ensure that all decisions and arrangements of the Party Central Committee are implemented to the letter. It is imperative to bring into full play the enthusiasm of all sectors and fully leverage the motivation, dedication and creativity of officials. A realistic and pragmatic approach must be taken to ensure both development and security, strengthen coordination and interplay between policies, and improve expectations management and overall policy effectiveness. Various aspects of work must be done well to ensure people's livelihoods and security in order to safeguard social stability.
It was noted at the meeting that, under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, the CPC Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and the National Commission of Supervision as well as discipline inspection and supervision departments at all levels have further studied and implemented Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, especially General Secretary Xi's important thought on the Party's self-reform. With focus on the central tasks of the Party and the country, they have continued to strengthen political oversight, further advanced efforts to improve Party conduct, enforce Party discipline and combat corruption, taken solid steps to conduct studies of Party discipline, made tangible progress in implementing the central Party leadership's eight-point decision on improving conduct, and focused on combating misconduct and corruption that occur at people's doorsteps. They have made intensified efforts to eradicate the breeding grounds and conditions for corruption, improved the systems for exercising full and rigorous self-governance of the Party and state supervision systems, consolidated and expanded what has been achieved in the theoretical study program, and made new progress in promoting the high-quality development of the discipline inspection and supervision work on the new journey.
The need was emphasized at the meeting for the discipline inspection and supervision departments to uphold Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era as guidance, have a full understanding of the decisive significance of the "Two Affirmations," and resolutely act on the "Two Upholds." They must maintain a high-pressure stance on combating corruption, unwaveringly and relentlessly push forward the anti-corruption campaign to greater depth, and make new achievements in full and rigorous Party self-governance so as to provide strong guarantees for advancing Chinese modernization. It is necessary to intensify political supervision with focus on "Two Upholds," strictly enforce political discipline and rules, and bring the implementation of major reforms under supervision and inspection to ensure reforms proceed smoothly through effective oversight. The results of Party discipline education campaign should be consolidated and deepened, and the role of Party discipline education as constraints, guarantees, and incentives should be fully utilized. The mechanisms for investigating and addressing instances of both misconduct and corruption should be improved, with great efforts to promote the integrated and deepened development of upholding integrity and combating corruption. Efforts must be made to address misconduct and corruption that occur at people's doorsteps, ensuring that the fruits of reform and development are distributed more equitably to benefit the broad masses of the people. It is crucial to strengthen the political responsibility of exercising full and rigorous Party self-governance, and strict steps must be taken through to the end. Additionally, work must be done to render disciplinary inspection and supervision work standardized, institutionalized and law-based, deepen the reform of the disciplinary inspection and supervision system, and cultivate a team of inspection and supervision personnel who are loyal, upright, responsible and have the courage and capability to engage in struggle.
Previously, General Secretary Xi Jinping presided over a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, during which reports were presented on the work of the CPC Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and the National Commission of Supervision for 2024, as well as preparations for the Fourth Plenary Session of the 20th CPC Central Commission for Discipline Inspection.
The CPC central leadership decided that the Fourth Plenary Session of the 20th CPC Central Commission for Discipline Inspection will be held from January 6 to 8 next year.
Other matters were also discussed at the meeting.
