Title: Former chief executives lauded for contributions
Date: Dec 20, 2024

President Xi Jinping praised Ho Hau-wah and Chui Sai-on, former chief executives of the Macao Special Administrative Region, on Thursday for their contributions to maintaining the prosperity and stability of the region, during a meeting with them in Macao.
Since Macao's return to the motherland 25 years ago, it has undergone significant changes, with its achievements being evident to all, Xi said.
He commended Ho, who is now vice-chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, and Chui for their efforts during their tenures to lead the SAR government and people from various sectors of society in Macao in steadfastly upholding national security and promoting the prosperity and stability of the region, saying that they laid a solid foundation for Macao's long-term development.
Xi expressed the hope that they would support the new chief executive and the new SAR government, support the development and expansion of patriotic forces, promote exchanges and cooperation between Macao and the Chinese mainland, and continue to contribute to the enduring success of the practice of "one country, two systems".
Ho and Chui expressed their commitment to serving Macao and the country, pledging full support for the new chief executive and the new SAR government in leading people from all sectors of society to create a new chapter in Macao's development.

Diligent work of Macao officials commended
President Xi Jinping said on Thursday that the practice of "one country, two systems" in Macao has achieved tremendous success.
Xi made the remark during a meeting with officials from the executive, legislative and judicial bodies of the special administrative region.
Through the concerted efforts of successive SAR governments and people from various sections of society, Macao's development has leapfrogged, demonstrating tremendous success in the practice of "one country, two systems", he said.
Xi commended the diligent work of the officials, saying that over the past five years, the officials, headed by Chief Executive Ho Iat-seng, have comprehensively, accurately and unwaveringly implemented the "one country, two systems" policy, and have pragmatically and effectively performed their duties, contributing significantly to the prosperity and stability of Macao.
He expressed the hope that the officials will continue to support the incoming chief executive and the new SAR government, promote Macao's development and contribute to the building of a better Macao.
On Thursday, Xi also met separately with representatives of the disciplined forces of the Macao SAR and representatives from various sectors of society. He also met with heads of central government agencies and major mainland-funded companies in the SAR.

SARs urged to promote exchanges, collaboration
President Xi Jinping said on Thursday that the practice of "one country, two systems" has entered a new stage, calling on the Hong Kong and Macao special administrative regions to demonstrate even greater achievements and achieve better development.
Xi made the remarks during his meeting with Chief Executive of the Hong Kong SAR John Lee Ka-chiu in Macao. He urged Hong Kong and Macao to promote mutual learning, exchanges and collaboration to create a brighter future.
Highlighting the high expectations the country has for Hong Kong, Xi expressed the hope that Lee and the SAR government would exercise governance prudently, focus on economic growth and strive to create new glories for Hong Kong.
Lee pledged to lead Hong Kong in economic development, improve people's livelihoods, actively participate in the construction of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, and better integrate the SAR into the country's overall development landscape.
