Title: Importance of international studies highlighted
Date: Dec 23, 2024

China has emerged as a pivotal force in shaping the global order, and its actions are not only crucial for its own development but also have a profound bearing on the future of the world, experts said.
While speaking at a seminar, titled "The Dynamic Global Landscape and China in the New Era", held on Friday to mark the 60th anniversary of the Institute of World Economics and Politics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing, the experts added that given today's complex global landscape, it has become increasingly important to strengthen international studies in the country.
Zhao Zhimin, secretary-general of the CASS, said: "Compared with 60 years ago, China has increasingly moved to the center of the world stage, becoming a vital driving force in maintaining world peace and promoting common development."
As the country enters a critical phase of advancing modernization and national rejuvenation, strengthening international studies is crucial for understanding the complexities of a rapidly changing world, he added.
Stressing the need for global governance research to adapt to shifting international dynamics, Wang Lei, deputy director of the IWEP, said: "We must account for the profound impact of technological advancements on national development and major country competition, ensuring that we grasp the overarching trends in this complex global situation."
Yao Zhizhong, director of the Bureau of International Cooperation at the CASS, said the world order is becoming increasingly chaotic, with established rules being undermined and the future growing more uncertain. For example, the World Trade Organization is no longer functioning effectively. "Some countries impose tariffs at their own will, leaving disputes unresolved," he said.
Ren Lin, a senior researcher of IWEP, said the geopolitical competition triggered by some major countries has significantly contributed to the instability of international order.
"Today, some major powers, like the United States, are 'weaponizing' international mechanisms, weakening their credibility and destabilizing the US dollar-based international financial system," Ren said, adding that this trend has intensified global uncertainty, posing significant challenges to achieving sustainable progress in governance.
Despite these challenges, experts agreed that China's commitment to multilateralism provides a viable path to fostering global stability and addressing pressing uncertainties.
Chen Bo, president of the China Institute of International Studies, elaborated on China's broader vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind. "China remains committed to openness, opposes decoupling, and focuses on overcoming obstacles to global economic development," she said. She advocated the importance of exploring new growth areas, such as low-carbon transitions and moves to combat climate change, which require strong international collaboration.
Yi Xiaozhun, former deputy director-general of the WTO, highlighted China's openness as its greatest advantage. "While the US hesitates to open its markets, China's willingness to share benefits and maintain openness unites the majority of nations," Yi said. He added that in the face of rising protectionism and unilateral actions, China should strive to adhere to multilateralism and comply with global trade rules to gain broader international understanding and support.
The forum also emphasized the growing importance of the Global South. Wu Haitao, China's former deputy permanent representative to the United Nations, noted that interdependence is now a defining feature of international relations. "The rise of the Global South is an important trend, and while it cannot immediately rival Western powers, its political and economic influence is steadily growing, contributing to building a more balanced and equitable global governance system," Wu said.
Hu Wenli, vice-president and director-general of the United Nations Association of China, said that fostering stronger cooperation between the UN and platforms like the G20, BRICS, and ASEAN+3 is essential for addressing global challenges and creating a more equitable and sustainable international order.
