Title: Lai's actions to manipulate young people into supporting 'Taiwan independence' shameful and reprehensible: spokesperson
Date: Nov 27, 2024

Speaking to high school students, Taiwan regional leader Lai Ching-te used deceitful rhetoric to manipulate young people into supporting “Taiwan independence” at great cost, aiming to exploit innocent youth as tools for “Taiwan independence,” and such actions are shameful and reprehensible, Chen Binhua, spokesperson for the State Council's Taiwan Affairs Office, said at a press conference on Wednesday.
Chen's comments were in response to Lai’s recent remarks to high school students, in which he made so-called "three peace options," rejected the signing of a cross-Straits peace agreement and the 1992 Consensus, while once again promoting “non-subordination" rhetoric across the Taiwan Straits.
Chen said on Wednesday that "Taiwan independence" cannot coexist with peace across the Taiwan Straits and the "Taiwan independence" separatist forces and their provocations pose the greatest threat to regional peace and stability.
Lai's so-called "path to peace" is, in fact, a path of destruction that ignores the safety and well-being of Taiwan’s youth and the general public. It disguises preparations for war and conflict under the banner of “peace.” pushing Taiwan step by step toward danger and disaster, said Chen.
We hope that the people of Taiwan, especially its youth, will recognize the true intentions behind Lai and the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) authorities' agenda to seek "Taiwan independence,” and strongly reject their provocative actions in pursuit of “Taiwan independence” and work to turn crisis into safety to make Taiwan embark on a sustainable and lasting path to peace, said Chen.
In response to an inquiry about Ma Ying-jeou's recent criticism of Lai for promoting the "two-state" fallacy, Chen said reunification represents an inevitable historical trend and the only viable path; the concept of "Taiwan independence" is a regressive and doomed pursuit.
Lai persistently adheres to a "Taiwan independence" position, advancing the "two-state" rhetoric and seeking external support for his agenda. This stance contradicts the course of history and is bound to fail, said the spokesperson.
Chen emphasized that the Chinese mainland is committed to strengthening communication and cooperation with political parties, organizations, and key figures in Taiwan, based on the common political foundation of upholding the 1992 Consensus and opposing "Taiwan independence."
The mainland will continue to promote cross-Straits exchanges, advance the peaceful development of cross-Straits relations, and pursue the ultimate goal of reunifying the motherland, Chen said.
