Title: Ministry condemns Canada's sanctions over alleged human rights violations
Date: Dec 12, 2024

China deplored on Wednesday Canada's interference in its internal affairs, urging the North American country to immediately revoke the illegal sanctions imposed on eight senior Chinese officials for alleged human rights violations.
Canadian Foreign Minister Melanie Joly announced the sanctions on Tuesday against the eight former or serving Chinese officials, citing so-called human rights violations in the Xinjiang Uygur and Xizang autonomous regions.
China strongly urges Canada to cease its "clumsy political show "and stop damaging its interests and image under the pretext of human rights, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Mao Ning said at a daily news briefing, vowing that China will take all necessary measures to resolutely safeguard its sovereignty, security and development interests.
Mao slammed the Canadian government for disregarding facts and smearing China, saying that such acts constitute gross interference in China's domestic affairs, as well as a serious violation of international law and the basic norms governing international relations.
Following a people-centered development philosophy, China has achieved enormous progress in human rights and made important contribution to the world's human rights cause, Mao said, emphasizing that this is "a simple fact that no one without bias can deny".
The spokeswoman further pointed out that Canada has neither the qualifications to act as a "moral instructor", pointing fingers at the human rights situation in other countries, nor does it have the right to position itself as a "human rights judge" to wantonly impose illegal sanctions.
Canada itself has a poor human rights record involving its indigenous people, who face racial discrimination and unfair treatment even today, she said.
Canada turns a blind eye to its own problems and willfully makes baseless allegations against other countries, such as spreading lies about so-called human rights problems in China, Mao said, adding that it is a typical move of "a thief crying stop the thief" and can hardly convince the world.
"In the face of facts, Canada's double standards and hypocrisy are fully exposed," she said, urging the country to reflect on its own acts.
In a statement released on Tuesday, a spokesperson for the Chinese embassy in Canada defended China's efforts to respect and protect human rights, saying that its achievements are obvious to all.
Since last year, thousands of foreign government officials, diplomats, religious figures, media representatives and scholars have visited Xinjiang and Xizang, the statement said.
They have widely praised the regions' economic and social achievements and commended the Chinese government for its significant efforts in preserving local multiethnic culture and ensuring religious freedom, it said.
In recent years, nearly 100 countries have expressed support for China's just stance on issues related to Xinjiang and Xizang through various means such as joint or individual statements at the United Nations Human Rights Council.
