Title: Riyadh and Teheran vow to elevate ties
Date: Nov 21, 2024

Chinese mediation lauded as trilateral talks also call for end to Israeli attacks
Saudi Arabia and Iran reaffirmed their commitment on Tuesday to advance bilateral ties at the second meeting of the China-Saudi Arabia-Iran Trilateral Joint Committee held in the Saudi capital Riyadh.
The two countries restored diplomatic relations through a widely hailed, China-brokered deal in March last year, followed by the first tripartite meeting in December.
Saudi Deputy Foreign Minister Waleed bin Abdulkarim Al-Khuraiji chaired the Riyadh meeting attended by Chinese Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs Deng Li, who led the Chinese delegation, and Majid Takht Ravanchi, deputy foreign minister of Iran.
In a statement published on Wednesday, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said China stands ready to "continue to support and encourage the steps taken by Saudi Arabia and Iran toward developing their relations in various fields".
The current escalation of tensions in the Middle East will have "serious consequences for regional and global security", it said.
"Against this backdrop, it is very important for senior officials from Saudi Arabia and Iran to engage in contacts, meetings, and mutual visits," the statement added.
Saudi Arabia and Iran reaffirmed their commitment to all provisions of the Beijing Agreement, and their continued efforts to consolidate good neighborly and friendly relations between the two countries by adhering to the United Nations Charter, the Charter of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation and international law, including respecting national sovereignty, independence and security, it said.
In a post on X, Takht Ravanchi said he met Deng and discussed the "ever-growing Iran-China relations".
"The two countries continue to work together to meet worldwide challenges and create opportunities for the Iranian and Chinese people," he said.
"All aspects of cooperation among the three countries were discussed "at the Riyadh meeting, he said. "The three can do a lot together for the maintenance of international peace and security and development of the region and beyond."
According to the Chinese Foreign Ministry statement, the three nations appreciated the convening of the first meeting of the Saudi-Iranian Joint Media Committee, and the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the Prince Saud Al-Faisal Institute for Diplomatic Studies and the Institute of Political and International Studies of the Iranian Foreign Ministry.
Saudi Arabia and Iran also expressed their readiness to sign a Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement, and the three countries look forward to expanding trilateral cooperation in economic, political and other fields, the statement said.
In addition, the three countries called for an immediate end to Israeli aggression in Palestine and Lebanon, condemned Israeli attacks and their violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iran, and called for the uninterrupted flow of humanitarian aid and relief to Palestine and Lebanon.
Cycle of violence
The continuing cycle of violence and escalation poses a serious threat to the security of the region and the world, including maritime security, they stated.
On the ground, Gaza's civil defense agency said on Wednesday that at least 17 people, including a baby, were killed in Israeli airstrikes on the Palestinian territory.
The Lebanese army said Israeli fire killed a soldier on Wednesday, a day after it said three other personnel died in a strike on their positions in south Lebanon.
Dina Yulianti Sulaeman, director of the Indonesia Center for Middle East Studies, told China Daily that Saudi Arabia and Iran have many different geopolitical interests.
Under the deal brokered, they have been cooperating. Most recently, at a summit of Arab and Muslim leaders in Riyadh on Nov 11, Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud said the international community should oblige Israel to respect Iran's sovereignty and not to violate its lands.
"The current regional order in the Middle East is still unbalanced, as evidenced by how Israel has committed various types of violations of international law freely under the protection of the West," Sulaeman said.
"China's success in mediating the two countries provides hope for the realization of a regional balance of power so that stability and peace in the region can be achieved."
