Title: SAR urged to enhance unity and cooperation
Date: Dec 21, 2024

President Xi Jinping meets with new officials of the executive, legislative and judicial organs of the Macao Special Administrative Region in Macao on Friday. (YIN BOGU/XINHUA)
President Xi Jinping said that the central government will fully support Sam Hou-fai, who was sworn in on Friday as the sixthterm chief executive of the Macao Special Administrative Region, and the new SAR government in fulfilling their duties.
Xi made the remark on Friday during a meeting with Sam in Macao. He expressed his confidence in Sam's ability to fulfill his duties conscientiously and live up to the responsibilities entrusted to him.
Xi also expressed the hope that Sam will unite and lead the new SAR government and people from all sectors of society to fully, faithfully and steadfastly implement the principles of "one country, two systems" and "Macao people governing Macao" with a high degree of autonomy, and resolutely safeguard national sovereignty, security and development interests.
He underlined the need for the SAR to vigorously advance the development of an appropriately diversified economy, continuously enhance the well-being of the people, and fully leverage Macao's unique position and advantages to better integrate into the nation's development landscape.
Efforts should be made to deepen exchanges and cooperation with various countries and regions, Xi said, urging Sam to make greater contributions to Macao's development.
Sam pledged to lead the new SAR government in uniting all sectors of society, and strive to create a new chapter in the successful practice of "one country, two systems" in Macao.
On Friday, Xi also met with new officials of the executive, legislative and judicial bodies of the Macao SAR.
Noting that the governance team of the sixth-term Macao SAR government is young and energetic with high morale, Xi expressed confidence that they will bear in mind their oath, fulfill their mission, be accountable to both the country and Macao, and deliver outstanding results that will make the nation, Macao and themselves proud.
He urged them to take a holistic approach, to be good at thinking with the fundamental interests of the country and the overall interests of Macao in mind, and firmly uphold national sovereignty, security and development.
While emphasizing the need for the officials to be practical and responsible in performing their duties, Xi said that efforts should be made to vigorously promote the development of an appropriately diversified economy, foster a more favorable business environment, and maintain stability and harmony in Macao.
He called for enhancing unity and cooperation, strengthening cross-sectoral and cross-departmental coordination and cooperation under the leadership of the chief executive, and effectively improving administrative efficiency.
Xi also urged the officials to maintain integrity and honesty, always keep the livelihood of Macao residents in mind, and prudently use the power in their hands so that they will be truly upright, honest and good officials who deliver benefits to the people.
Speaking at a reception on Friday afternoon to commemorate the 25th anniversary of Macao's return to the motherland, Sam, the newly inaugurated chief executive, said President Xi's speeches during his three-day inspection set forth new standards for the principle of "one country, two systems" that the city must uphold.
The SAR government will take the lead in guiding all sectors of society to diligently study and embody the essence of Xi's speeches, he said.
Moreover, the SAR government is committed to honoring the trust bestowed on it by the central government and Xi, transforming the president's directives into a catalyst for Macao's progress, the chief executive said.
Sam pointed out that the experiences of the past 25 years have demonstrated that the motherland has consistently supported Macao's prosperity, with the institutional advantage of "one country, two systems" serving as the foundation of the city's development.
The new-term government will fulfill its duties to actively promote economic development and foster a conducive business environment, ensuring Macao's stability and long-term prosperity, Sam said, adding that the administration will also maintain a people-centric approach, addressing the most pressing concerns of the general public, enhancing their well-being and bolstering their sense of security and happiness.
Sam vowed to promote, by leveraging Macao's unique positioning and advantages, the city's active participation in the development of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, steering the city toward regional progress as well as better integration into national development.
Sam also pledged that he and his team will lead all sectors of the community to reach new heights in the next five years.
Regardless of the challenges that may arise, Sam said he is committed to forging ahead and making full efforts to initiate a new chapter of "one country, two systems" that highlights Macao's distinct characteristics.
"I am dedicated to striving diligently for a brighter future for Macao and the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation," he said.
