Title: Sino-French ties seen as strategically significant
Date: Nov 20, 2024

Chinese President Xi Jinping meets with French President Emmanuel Macron on the sidelines of the G20 Leaders' Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Nov 19, 2024. (Photo/Xinhua)
China and France are independent, mature and responsible major countries, and the relationship between the two nations is of unique strategic significance and global influence, President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday.
Xi made the remarks during a meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron on the sidelines of the 19th G20 Summit in Rio de Janeiro.
Noting that the international situation is undergoing fresh changes, Xi said that it is the shared responsibility of China and France to lead the international community in unity to address global challenges.
He underlined the need for both countries to deepen strategic communication and strengthen mutual support in order to maintain the momentum of the steady and positive development of bilateral relations, and to work together to make a greater contribution to the sound development of China-Europe relations as well as world peace and stability.
China's new round of reform and opening-up will provide new opportunities for the countries' pragmatic cooperation, he said.
Xi expressed the hope that both sides will make good use of high-level economic and financial dialogue and other mechanisms to tap into cooperation potential, address their differences properly and achieve mutual benefit and win-win outcomes.
Macron said that France adheres to strategic autonomy and is willing to engage in dialogue and cooperation with China based on the spirit of mutual respect, properly handle economic and trade disputes, and maintain the healthy and stable development of bilateral economic and trade relations.
France is ready to strengthen cooperation with China in areas such as climate change and global artificial intelligence governance, he said.
The Chinese and French presidents also exchanged views on the Ukraine crisis.
