Title: Xi: Advance Belt and Road cooperation
Date: Dec 3, 2024

President Xi Jinping addresses a symposium on the development of the Belt and Road Initiative in Beijing on Monday. (XIE HUANCHI/XINHUA)
President Xi Jinping emphasized on Monday the importance of properly addressing various risks and challenges and overcoming the impact of geopolitical conflicts, as China advances high-quality cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative, which has entered its second decade.
Citing the noticeable rise in unilateralism and protectionism and the frequent occurrence of regional conflicts and turbulence in today's world, Xi said it is crucial to remain strategically confident and determined, in order to create a brighter future for jointly building the Belt and Road.
Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remarks while addressing a symposium in Beijing on BRI development.
It was the fourth time that Xi has attended such a symposium since 2013, when he proposed joining with others to build a Silk Road Economic Belt and a 21st Century Maritime Silk Road, known as the BRI.
The previous symposiums, held in 2016, 2018 and 2021, have helped point the way forward for Belt and Road cooperation at critical junctures.
Xi said that since 2013, the joint building of the Belt and Road has been committed to the Silk Road spirit characterized by peace and cooperation, openness and inclusiveness, and mutual learning and mutual benefit, with expanded cooperation in a larger scope of areas.
So far, China has signed more than 200 BRI cooperation agreements with more than 150 countries and 30 international organizations across five continents.
In the first 10 months of this year, China's trade with countries participating in the BRI climbed 6.2 percent, compared with the same period a year earlier, to 16.94 trillion yuan ($2.33 trillion), according to the General Administration of Customs.
Through Belt and Road cooperation, some countries have their first expressways or modern railways, some have developed their own car industries, and some have put an end to long-standing power shortages.
Last month, Chancay Port, a flagship BRI project in Peru, was inaugurated via video link by Xi and Peruvian President Dina Ercilia Boluarte Zegarra, consolidating Peru's position as a gateway connecting land and sea, Asia and Latin America.
Xi said at the symposium that the initiative has contributed to deepening China's friendship with participating countries and has helped promote these countries' economic and social development.
As Belt and Road cooperation ushers in a new stage of high-quality development, Xi said efforts should be made to ensure that Belt and Road cooperation benefits China while continuing to bring a sense of gain to the countries involved, thus effectively safeguarding China's overseas interests and security.
Xi said BRI development should be guided by the eight major steps to support high-quality Belt and Road cooperation that he announced last year at the opening ceremony of the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation.
The eight major steps include building a multidimensional Belt and Road connectivity network, advancing scientific and technological innovation, and strengthening institution building for international BRI cooperation.
For more resilient and sustainable BRI development at a higher level, Xi said coordinated efforts are required to deepen connectivity in multiple fields, ranging from infrastructure to people-to-people ties, to push forward signature projects, as well as small-scale yet significant projects, and to steadily expand cooperation in emerging sectors.
He also stressed the need to strengthen institution building for high-quality cooperation under the BRI in terms of cooperation planning and management, industrial and supply chain cooperation, and guaranteeing overseas interests, among other things.
Xi reiterated that the high-quality development of Belt and Road cooperation must be brought forward by following the blueprint with steadfast efforts despite risks and challenges, thus making greater contributions to building a community with a shared future for mankind.
Vice-Premier Ding Xuexiang, who chaired the symposium, said all departments and governments at all levels should continue to improve top-level design for Belt and Road cooperation, formulate practical measures, deepen cooperation with other countries and strive to create more exemplary and leading achievements.
