Mozambican Minister of Education and Human Development Carmelita Namashulua (C) receives a batch of school supplies from Bai Pengyu (L), president of the Chinese Chamber of Commerce in the country, in Maputo, Mozambique, May 18, 2023. (Photo by Israel Zefanias/Xinhua)
MAPUTO, May 19 (Xinhua) -- Mozambique's Ministry of Education and Human Development has received a batch of school supplies donated by the Chinese Chamber of Commerce in the country (MCCC), which will be allocated to primary schools and pupils in three districts in the northern province of Cabo Delgado plagued by terrorism.
These supplies, including school desks and chairs, school bags, stationery, and student clothing, were purchased through fundraising by the MCCC member enterprises.
Speaking at the handover ceremony in the national capital of Maputo on Thursday, Mozambican Minister of Education and Human Development Carmelita Namashulua said the government still faces significant challenges in the reconstruction of social infrastructure and the restoration of school activities in the conflict-torn northern region.
She expressed her appreciation for the support from Chinese enterprises in helping Mozambique respond to the challenges.
"Our schools where our children study have been attacked by terrorists, and the children were left without school facilities or supplies and cannot study properly. The children not only lost their classrooms, but also lost all their stationary: books, notebooks, and pencils," said Namashulua.
"We are sure that with this mobilization, we will be able to contribute to improving the teaching and learning conditions of our children," said the minister.
According to the minister, Cabo Delgado Province has a total of 1,006 schools, of which 802 are in operation and the rest are closed due to terrorism, and a total of 101 schools have been destroyed and burned down during the terrorist attacks.
"We encourage Chinese-funded enterprises in Mozambique to actively fulfill their social responsibilities and promote the friendship between China and Mozambique through concrete actions that enhance mutual understanding and trust between the two peoples," said Chinese Ambassador to Mozambique Wang Hejun.
In his speech, Bai Pengyu, the president of the MCCC, called for more enterprises and individuals to support Mozambique's education cause. He expressed his expectation that the traditional friendship between the two peoples can be passed down from generation to generation and continue flourishing.
The turmoil in parts of Cabo Delgado Province has been ongoing for over five years, with the extremist group Islamic State claiming responsibility for some of the attacks.
According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project, the conflicts have resulted in the displacement of one million people and the loss of 4,000 lives. ■