KIGALI, April 4 (Xinhua) -- The 23rd Chinese medical team in Rwanda has donated a consignment of medical supplies to Masaka Hospital in the Kicukiro district in Kigali, the capital of Rwanda.
The team presented various medical supplies to the hospital Monday, including hand disinfectant, dental treatment equipment, medical isolation goggles, disposable sterile operating overalls, and electric operating table.
Upon receiving the donation at Masaka Hospital, Director General Jean Damascene Hanyurwimfura expressed his gratitude to the Chinese medical team for their generous support toward the hospital's medical care.
"The Chinese medical team has been providing specialist medical support which has contributed to improved medical care at the hospital. The medical equipment donation would enhance the hospital's capacity to diagnose and treat a wide range of medical conditions, ultimately leading to better health outcomes for patients," he said.
Speaking at the event, Zhao Shangjun, the leader of the Chinese medical team, said that the donation will help in providing specialized medical care to patients at Masaka Hospital.
"We discussed with the hospital authorities about the shortage of medical equipment in the hospital. Based on their needs, we donated various medical supplies to Masaka Hospital, including an electric operating table. We believe that this donation will significantly improve the hospital's capacity to deliver quality medical care," said Zhao.
At the event, Wang Jiaxin, the economic and commercial counselor of the Chinese Embassy in Rwanda, said that providing medical supplies to Masaka Hospital is an annual activity of the Chinese medical team. "The better the hospital is equipped with medical care necessities, the better the service provided to local patients."
He said that the medical cooperation between China and Rwanda has been going on for several years, with the Chinese medical team providing medical care support to Masaka and Kibungo hospitals. China started to dispatch medical teams to Rwanda in 1982. ■