Tang Wenhong (1st L, front), vice chairman of China International Development Cooperation Agency (CIDCA) and head of a visiting Chinese delegation, and Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa attend the handover ceremony of Zimbabwe's new parliament building in Harare, Zimbabwe, Oct. 26, 2023. The Chinese government on Thursday handed over to Zimbabwe a new parliament building that was constructed and funded by China through a grant. (Xinhua/Zhang Baoping)
HARARE, Oct. 26 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese government on Thursday handed over to Zimbabwe a new parliament building that was constructed and funded by China through a grant.
Tang Wenhong, vice chairman of China International Development Cooperation Agency (CIDCA) and head of a visiting Chinese delegation, officially handed over the majestic building to Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa at a ceremony attended by government officials, diplomats, and Chinese embassy officials, among others.
The new parliament building, with a combined floor area of 33,000 square meters, is a pivot point around which a new administrative capital will be built, said Mnangagwa in his address at the ceremony.
"The new parliament building, which stands as one of the most magnificent and modern buildings in our country, signifies the excellent relations that exist between Zimbabwe and the People's Republic of China. The attention to detail and high standards of workmanship exhibited in this project are indeed commendable," Mnangagwa said.
Mnangagwa said Zimbabwe recognizes the development milestones achieved by China and its quest for global peace and a shared future for mankind.
Tang, in his address at the ceremony, said the project is a vivid manifestation of the cooperation between Zimbabwe and China.
Both sides have achieved fruitful results in practical cooperation in infrastructure, agriculture, health, education and other fields, setting a model for South-South cooperation, Tang said. ■
This photo taken on Oct. 26, 2023 shows a conference hall of Zimbabwe's new parliament building in Harare, Zimbabwe. The Chinese government on Thursday handed over to Zimbabwe a new parliament building that was constructed and funded by China through a grant. (Xinhua/Zhang Baoping)
This photo taken on Oct. 26, 2023 shows the exterior view of Zimbabwe's new parliament building in Harare, Zimbabwe. The Chinese government on Thursday handed over to Zimbabwe a new parliament building that was constructed and funded by China through a grant. (Xinhua/Zhang Baoping)