Angolan Chinese language learners sing songs during the "Chinese Bridge" World Proficiency Competition in Luanda, Angola, June 21, 2023. A global Chinese language competition took place on Wednesday at Agostinho Neto University (UAN), one of Angola's most prestigious universities, in the capital of Luanda. (Xinhua/Lyu Chengcheng)
LUANDA, June 22 (Xinhua) -- A global Chinese language competition took place on Wednesday at Agostinho Neto University (UAN), one of Angola's most prestigious universities, in the capital of Luanda.
Organized by the Confucius Institute at UAN, this year's "Chinese Bridge" World Proficiency Competition in the Chinese Language for University Students entered its third edition in Angola and was combined with another Chinese contest to commemorate 40 years of diplomatic relations between China and Angola.
Pedro Magalhaes, the rector of UAN, said the objective of the third edition of the "Chinese Bridge" in Angola is to assess students' proficiency in the Chinese language, which helps strengthen the solid friendship and cultural exchanges between the two countries.
A total of 15 participants took the stage one by one to deliver speeches in Chinese, sing songs, or recite ancient Chinese poems. Their confidence and excellent performances repeatedly aroused the audience's enthusiasm, garnering resounding applause throughout the campus.
Ren Bing, the Chinese director of the Confucius Institute at UAN, revealed that the first- and second-place winners will have the opportunity to visit China for free and represent Angola in the global final of the "Chinese Bridge" competition. The winners of the competition in China will receive scholarships to study in China for up to four years.
Eliaquim Bravo, a secondary school student, emerged as this edition's champion in Angola. After receiving the trophy, he expressed his immense happiness to Xinhua.
"Mandarin (standard Chinese language) is the language of the future. I believe that learning Mandarin would greatly contribute to securing a stable position in one's professional career," he said. "My dream is to go to China to continue my studies and experience both ancient and modern Chinese culture," he said.
Chinese Ambassador to Angola Gong Tao emphasized that language serves as the bond for exchange and mutual learning between civilizations. He said the Chinese language is the "golden key" that unlocks the door to exploring Chinese civilization and enables a panoramic, multidimensional and diverse understanding of China.
"The Chinese side is willing to work together with the Angolan side, leveraging the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries as a driving force to strengthen cultural exchanges and cooperation, promoting mutual understanding and friendship among the people," said Gong.
Job Antonio, the Angolan director of the Confucius Institute at UAN, said the Confucius Institute is dedicated to teaching the Chinese language and culture while also seeking to promote exchanges between the two peoples. ■
Pedro Magalhaes (L), the rector of Agostinho Neto University (UAN) presents the award to Eliaquim Bravo, the Angolan champion of the "Chinese Bridge" World Proficiency Competition in Luanda, Angola, June 21, 2023. A global Chinese language competition took place on Wednesday at UAN, one of Angola's most prestigious universities, in the capital of Luanda. (Xinhua/Lyu Chengcheng)