ADDIS ABABA, June 1 (Xinhua) -- Chinese mobile phone manufacturer Tecno has unveiled its high-end Phantom V Fold in the Ethiopian market.
Ethiopian tech enthusiasts attended the product launch event on Wednesday at the Addis Ababa Science Museum, in the Ethiopian capital, where Tecno's latest model smartphone that utilizes a foldable technology was exhibited.
The company said the unveiling of its latest mobile phone marks a significant milestone, as it brings its innovative new product to one of Africa's fastest-growing economies with a population of over 110 million people and home to a rapidly-growing consumer base.
"We are thrilled to be showcasing the Phantom V Fold model in Ethiopia. This is a significant moment for Tecno Mobile and the mobile industry in Africa as a whole," said Alick Huang, Tecno Mobile Brand Manager in Ethiopia.
"We believe that the Phantom V Fold will offer something truly unique to consumers, and we are excited to see the reaction to this innovative new product," he added.
The company said the development of Phantom V Fold reflects Tecno's intensive efforts to bring desirable, high-end technologies to frontier markets through its Phantom sub-brand.
Combining advanced innovations with bold style, Phantom V Fold is expected to deliver a premium foldable experience to new audiences, empowering users to show their identity and become pioneers in business and society while enjoying a first-class foldable device experience.
The smartphone boasts a 120 Hz golden-size flagship foldable 7.85-inch LED display with an Aerospace-grade hinge for an ultra-flat main screen, an innovative reverse snap structure that significantly improves the phone's structural stability. It also has a 6.42 -inch cover screen and ultra-HD 5-lens photography system that creates an unprecedented image-making experience.
Ethiopian tech enthusiasts expressed positive reaction to the performance of the Phantom V Fold.
Tecno Mobile Ethiopia is an established brand in the Ethiopian market since 2006, providing smartphones with cutting-edge features tailored to the unique needs and demands of Ethiopian consumers. ■