Tanzania's Zanzibar Minister of Trade and Industrial Development Omar Said Shaaban speaks at the 47th Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF) in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, on July 4, 2023. Tanzania's leading trade fair on Tuesday celebrated China Day and launched a pavilion featuring more than 100 Chinese companies. (Photo by Herman Emmanuel/Xinhua)
DAR ES SALAAM, July 5 (Xinhua) -- Tanzania's leading trade fair on Tuesday celebrated China Day and launched a pavilion featuring more than 100 Chinese companies.
Speaking at the 47th Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF) to celebrate the day, Tanzania's Zanzibar Minister of Trade and Industrial Development Omar Said Shaaban said: "China Day represents a significant milestone in our relationship, highlighting our shared vision for a prosperous and sustainable future."
"We also welcome Chinese tourists to experience the cultural richness and beauty of our islands," said Shaaban as he lauded the East Africa Commercial and Logistics Center (EACLC), the main sponsor of the 47th DITF.
Chinese investments in Tanzania have brought about job opportunities, improved infrastructure, and propelled the growth of key industries, Shaaban said before launching the China pavilion.
Chen Mingjian, the Chinese ambassador to Tanzania, said trade between China and Tanzania, especially the export volume of high-quality agricultural products to China, is expected to continue growing.
In the first five months of this year, bilateral trade between China and Tanzania reached 3.3 billion U.S. dollars, an increase of 18 percent year on year, Chen said, citing Chinese customs data.
"China has been the largest trading partner of Tanzania for seven consecutive years," she said.
The Chinese envoy said China is the largest source country of investment in Tanzania with more than 200 Chinese companies having invested and operated in the East African nation in agriculture, manufacturing, mining, tourism, service industries and other fields, assisting the host country to promote its industrialization process.
Cathy Wang, the EACLC director general, said the China pavilion, covering 1,600 square meters, showcases products from more than 100 companies from China, some of which have already started assembling and manufacturing products in Tanzania.
Lui Feifei, a representative from China's Shandong province, recalled that in 2021, the province signed strategic cooperation memorandums with Tanzania's Ministry of Investment, Industry and Trade, and the Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture to strengthen in-depth exchanges and cooperation in areas such as trade promotion, two-way investment, and exhibition.
Candy Shu, an exhibitor from Shandong province, said her company, Shandong Juhe Steel Company, which specializes in producing roofing materials, is happy to participate in Tanzania's major trade fair.
Shu, the marketing manager for Juhe, said the company has received orders from visitors to the China pavilion.
"We are hoping that our business will become stronger and stronger after participating in this trade fair," she said. ■
Chen Mingjian, the Chinese ambassador to Tanzania, speaks at the 47th Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF) in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, on July 4, 2023. Tanzania's leading trade fair on Tuesday celebrated China Day and launched a pavilion featuring more than 100 Chinese companies. (Photo by Herman Emmanuel/Xinhua)