by Hua Hongli and Lucas Liganga
DAR ES SALAAM, Dec. 20 (Xinhua) -- "The Chinese language is the language of the day across the globe. It is the language that unlocks opportunities for the youth, locally and globally," said Asha Fum Khamis, a Chinese language teacher from Tanzania's Zanzibar at the Confucius Institute within the University of Dar es Salaam.
Khamis, 32, said she has taught Chinese to more than 300 Tanzanian students during her three years of teaching.
"About 50 of the 300-plus students that I had taught have been employed as Chinese language teachers, and some of them have secured decent jobs in Chinese companies based in Tanzania as interpreters," said Khamis, whose husband also speaks fluent Chinese.
As the Confucius Institute at the University of Dar es Salaam in Tanzania marks its 10th anniversary this year, many Tanzanian people believe that their lives have been changed.
Elionora Joseph Mosha, 22, and Hamida Seif Alawi, 24, both third-year students at the University of Dar es Salaam pursuing a bachelor of language studies, said after gaining access to Chinese language learning at the Confucius Institute, they obtained a big horizon to further knowing China and the whole world.
Alawi won the chance to study at Zhejiang Normal University in east China between September 2019 and July 2020 under a scholarship from the institute, which she described as a "life-changing moment."
What Alawi benefited from learning Chinese is motivating more Chinese teachers to come to Tanzania. Among them are Gao Xiaoyu and 13 other volunteer teachers from Zhejiang Normal University, who arrived in Tanzania in September this year.
"I'm definitely passionate about teaching them the Chinese language, and interspersing the lessons with an introduction to Chinese culture, including playing Chinese songs and movies to them," Gao said, adding that she also wants to help Tanzanian students apply for scholarships and obtain study opportunities in China.
Aldin Mutembei, Tanzanian director at the Confucius Institute at the University of Dar es Salaam, said the institute has helped to bridge the culture and friendship link between China and Tanzania.
"The Confucius Institute is like a bridge for the Tanzanian people to understand the Chinese language and culture, and of course, our friendship," said Mutembei.
"The past 10 years, however, have seen more than 100 teachers and volunteers from China come to Tanzania, training more than 60,000 Chinese language learners," said Zhang Xiaozhen, the Chinese director of the institute.
Chen Mingjian, the Chinese ambassador to Tanzania, said the institute has so far helped nearly 100 students apply for scholarships, providing them with the opportunity to study in China.
The Confucius Institute at the University of Dar es Salaam was established in 2013 under an agreement between the University of Dar es Salaam, the Chinese International Education Foundation, and Zhejiang Normal University. ■