Visitors are seen at the Telecom Congress of Huawei in Gaborone, Botswana, March 31, 2023. Chinese tech giant Huawei held its first Telecom Congress in Botswana from Tuesday to Friday, launching a series of network and data center solutions.
The four-day event drew more than 400 representatives from the government, telecom operators, enterprises, and universities to experience the latest industry technologies and solutions.(Photo by Tshekiso Tebalo/Xinhua)
GABORONE, April 1 (Xinhua) -- Chinese tech giant Huawei held its first Telecom Congress in Botswana from Tuesday to Friday, launching a series of network and data center solutions.
The four-day event drew more than 400 representatives from the government, telecom operators, enterprises, and universities to experience the latest industry technologies and solutions.
Thulagano Segokgo, Botswana's minister of Communications, Knowledge and Technology, expressed gratitude to Huawei for actively participating in Botswana's national digital transformation during the event and encouraged the company to bring more cutting-edge innovative technologies to Botswana.
For many years, Huawei has taken an active part in Botswana's planning and development of information and communication technology (ICT) so as to support the building of ubiquitous connectivity and the ICT sector in Botswana, said David Zhang, managing director of Huawei in Botswana.
"We hope to provide Botswana with high-quality 5G experience and digital intelligent transformation solutions," said Zhang.
During the event, Huawei held a forum on the theme of "ICT for Youth Development and Employment" to support Botswana's socio-economic development through talent cultivation.
Since 2019, Huawei has provided industry-leading ICT training to more than 100 Botswana university students through the programs of Seeds for the Future and Huawei ICT Academy, said Zhang.
In the future, Huawei plans to provide communications training for 100 Botswana students every year, he said.
Puntsho Pusoetsile, permanent secretary of the Ministry of Communications, Knowledge and Technology, welcomed the plan and encouraged more enterprises to participate in local communications talent cultivation. ■
A visitor tries VR devices at the Telecom Congress of Huawei in Gaborone, Botswana, March 31, 2023. Chinese tech giant Huawei held its first Telecom Congress in Botswana from Tuesday to Friday, launching a series of network and data center solutions.
The four-day event drew more than 400 representatives from the government, telecom operators, enterprises, and universities to experience the latest industry technologies and solutions.(Photo by Tshekiso Tebalo/Xinhua)
 