Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa (2nd R, front) cuts the ribbon to commission the new Chinese-funded expanded terminal at Robert Gabriel Mugabe International Airport in Harare, Zimbabwe, July 14, 2023. Mnangagwa said the airport has brought positive effects to the country's economy, "including skills and technology transfer, as well as the creation of employment and empowerment opportunities."
The project, expected to increase the airport's holding capacity to 6 million people per annum from 2.5 million when all is accomplished, consists of an international terminal building and aprons, four new bridges, a secondary radar system, a VVIP pavilion and an airfield ground lighting and communication system, among other things. (Photo by Shaun Jusa/Xinhua)
HARARE, July 14 (Xinhua) -- Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Friday commissioned the new Chinese-funded expanded terminal at Robert Gabriel Mugabe International Airport in Harare, the main gateway to the southern African country.
Starting in 2018, the expansion project was done by China Jiangsu International with funding from the Export-Import Bank of China.
The project, expected to increase the airport's holding capacity to 6 million people per annum from 2.5 million when all is accomplished, consists of an international terminal building and aprons, four new bridges, a secondary radar system, a VVIP pavilion and an airfield ground lighting and communication system, among other things.
The commissioning ceremony was also attended by senior government officials, the Chinese Ambassador to Zimbabwe Zhou Ding and other foreign diplomats.
Speaking at the event, Mnangagwa said the modernized facility is magnificent and now meets international standards.
Mnangagwa said the airport has brought positive effects to the country's economy, "including skills and technology transfer, as well as the creation of employment and empowerment opportunities."
Taking pride in the achievements that China and Zimbabwe have worked together to accomplish, Zhou said that bilateral relations have continued to deliver tangible results, and that the airport project "is another testimony to our fruitful cooperation and another monument of friendship." ■