CAIRO, April 5 (Xinhua) -- This year marks the 60th anniversary of China dispatching its first medical team to Africa. In many parts of the vast continent, Chinese doctors are hailed as "angels in white" and "ambassadors of friendship," and such endearing titles given by local residents reflect their gratitude and trust.
Since its first medical team was dispatched to Algeria on April 6, 1963, China has been constantly sending medical personnel to the African continent. China's foreign medical aid mission has now gone global.
Over the past six decades, China has sent medical teams totaling 30,000 members to 76 countries and regions across five continents, providing some 290 million diagnoses and treatments. Currently, Chinese medical teams work at 115 sites in 57 countries, nearly half of which are in remote areas with harsh conditions.
Malaria, cholera, yellow fever and other infectious diseases have long plagued Africa, home to the largest number of developing countries, due to a lack of medical infrastructure and personnel.
Overcoming great difficulties and challenges, Chinese medical teams have been providing much-needed medical services to African people and filled many gaps in local medical fields with their skills and professionalism.
They have successfully conducted the first open-heart surgery in Sudan, the first cardiac pacemaker implantation in the Gambia, the first craniectomy in Benin, and the first replantation of a severed right upper arm in Mozambique, to name a few.
In a bid to boost local healthcare capacity, Chinese doctors in Africa have also provided training for local medical workers.
Furthermore, China has helped build the headquarters of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and dozens of specialized centers; donated medicines, vaccines and equipment to Africa; and shared its experience in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.
With its 60-year non-stop medical assistance to Africa, China has helped improve the health and well-being of the African people. As China and Africa strive to build a community with a shared future in the new era, including a community of health, Chinese doctors in Africa are the pioneers in seeking to achieve this goal. ■