Ethiopian government officials, Chinese diplomats in Ethiopia, officials from the Ethiopia-Djibouti Standard Gauge Railway Share Company, heads of different think tanks, as well as media leaders attend a high-level meeting themed "China-Ethiopia Building Belt and Road" in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, June 30, 2023. Ethiopian experts and policymakers on Friday hailed the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) as a mutually beneficial cooperation platform advancing socioeconomic development in Ethiopia and beyond. (Xinhua/Michael Tewelde)
ADDIS ABABA, June 30 (Xinhua) -- Ethiopian experts and policymakers on Friday hailed the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) as a mutually beneficial cooperation platform advancing socioeconomic development in Ethiopia and beyond.
This came during a high-level meeting themed "China-Ethiopia Building Belt and Road." The roundtable meeting brought together senior Ethiopian government officials, Chinese diplomats in Ethiopia, officials from the Ethiopia-Djibouti Standard Gauge Railway Share Company (EDR), heads of different think tanks, as well as media leaders, among others.
Ethiopian Minister of Transport and Logistics Alemu Sime said during the occasion that as an important partner of China in building the BRI, Ethiopia and China have been cooperating closely in the field of transportation, and the two countries have complemented each other's advantages, showing great potential for development.
"The Belt and Road Initiative has become an open and inclusive, mutually beneficial and win-win international cooperation platform. We are grateful to the Chinese government for its continuous support to the development of transportation in Ethiopia," the minister said.
He said the 752.7-km Chinese-built Ethiopia-Djibouti standard gauge railway, also known as the Addis Ababa-Djibouti railway, as one manifestation of the BRI, has injected a crucial impetus to Ethiopia's development aspirations.
"The Addis Ababa-Djibouti Railway is not only a transportation line, but also an economic corridor and a road to prosperity. It has opened up a railroad corridor to the sea for Ethiopia, effectively driving the development of industrialization and urbanization along the route," he said.
Abdi Zenebe, the chief executive officer of the EDR, highlighted the BRI's positive contribution to anchoring global development. "The Belt and Road Initiative represents an extraordinary vision, one that transcends borders, connects continents, and fosters economic cooperation on an unprecedented scale," he said.
The EDR chief also said the initiative is a "testament to our shared commitment to progress and mutual prosperity."
While echoing the sentiment, Beyene Petros, director general of the Policy Studies Institute, a leading think tank in Ethiopia, underscored the wide-ranging socioeconomic benefits of the BRI to Ethiopia. "Ethiopia is one of the countries that has embraced this initiative, and the benefits are already being felt with the construction of various infrastructure projects, including highways, railways, and industrial parks," he said.
Zhao Zhiyuan, Chinese ambassador to Ethiopia, described Ethiopia as "the pioneer of China-Africa cooperation and the African bridgehead of building the BRI." He further underscored the Chinese government's commitment and readiness to support Ethiopia's aspiration to develop through the BRI and other development initiatives.
"While Ethiopia and China steadily promote high-quality BRI development, we also initiated cooperation under the Global Development Initiative and pushed forward the implementation of the Nine Programs under Forum on China-Africa Cooperation," he said. ■
This photo taken on June 30, 2023 shows an Ethiopian train attendant at Lebu Railway Station in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Ethiopian experts and policymakers on Friday hailed the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) as a mutually beneficial cooperation platform advancing socioeconomic development in Ethiopia and beyond. (Xinhua/Michael Tewelde)
Ethiopian Minister of Transport and Logistics Alemu Sime speaks during a high-level meeting themed "China-Ethiopia Building Belt and Road" in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, June 30, 2023. Ethiopian experts and policymakers on Friday hailed the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) as a mutually beneficial cooperation platform advancing socioeconomic development in Ethiopia and beyond. (Xinhua/Michael Tewelde)
A staff member boards a train at Lebu Railway Station in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, June 30, 2023. Ethiopian experts and policymakers on Friday hailed the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) as a mutually beneficial cooperation platform advancing socioeconomic development in Ethiopia and beyond. (Xinhua/Michael Tewelde)
Ethiopian Minister of Transport and Logistics Alemu Sime takes a train operating along the Ethiopia-Djibouti Railway in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, June 30, 2023. Ethiopian experts and policymakers on Friday hailed the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) as a mutually beneficial cooperation platform advancing socioeconomic development in Ethiopia and beyond. (Xinhua/Michael Tewelde)