Ethiopian Finance Minister Ahmed Shide speaks during the 2023 Corporate Social Responsibility Forum: Chinese Enterprise in Ethiopia, under the theme "Join Hands with Ethiopia for a Win-Win Future" in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on July 5, 2023. (Xinhua/Michael Tewelde) 
ADDIS ABABA, July 6 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese companies in Ethiopia are playing a significant role in the country's economic development, Ethiopian Finance Minister Ahmed Shide said here Wednesday.
The Chinese government and companies have been active in undertaking major infrastructure projects, the minister said at the 2023 Corporate Social Responsibility Forum: Chinese Enterprise in Ethiopia, which was held under the theme "Join Hands with Ethiopia for a Win-Win Future."
"The way Chinese companies work in Ethiopia is very much in a responsible way when it comes to contributing to the development of the country. It is very much appreciated," he said.
Aklilu Tadesse, chief executive officer of Ethiopia's Industrial Parks Development Corporation, said during the forum that China's engagement has propelled Ethiopia's quest to become the manufacturing hub of Africa.
In addition to constructing the majority of the industrial parks across Ethiopia, Chinese companies are also the main sources of investment inside the industrial parks, Tadesse said.
Chinese companies have discharged their corporate social responsibilities, meaningfully contributing to the betterment of Ethiopians, Chinese Ambassador to Ethiopia Zhao Zhiyuan said, adding that there have been 1,835 Chinese direct investment projects with an accumulative investment of about 4.8 billion U.S. dollars, creating 560,000 job opportunities, in Ethiopia.
"To implement high-quality development concepts requires stable employment, improved livelihood, cultural progress, and a healthy ecosystem, none of which can be done without real corporate social responsibility actions," the ambassador said.
The forum brought together senior Ethiopian government officials, representatives from Chinese enterprises in Ethiopia and their Ethiopian counterparts, as well as diplomats in the East African country. ■