Tang Renjian (L), China's minister of agriculture and rural affairs, and Mohamed Sadiki, the Moroccan minister of agriculture, maritime fisheries, rural development, water and forests, sign a memorandum of understanding in Rabat, Morocco, on July 4, 2023. China and Morocco on Tuesday signed here a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to enhance bilateral agricultural cooperation. (Xinhua/Huo Jing)
RABAT, July 4 (Xinhua) -- China and Morocco on Tuesday signed here a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to enhance bilateral agricultural cooperation.
The MoU was signed by Tang Renjian, China's minister of agriculture and rural affairs, with Mohamed Sadiki, the Moroccan minister of agriculture, maritime fisheries, rural development, water and forests.
Under the MoU, the two countries agree to enhance cooperation in the fields of distant-water fishing, aquatic products processing technology, organic agriculture, agricultural digitalization, irrigation techniques, and water management.
Tang lauded the fruitful cooperation between China and Morocco in the fields of vegetable variety cultivation, cultivation technology, veterinary drug and vaccine research and development, as the two countries enjoy strong similarities and complementarities in agriculture.
He said that China is willing to work with Morocco to deepen the mutually beneficial cooperation on animal disease prevention and control, dry land water-saving agriculture, conservation of marine fishery resources, and protection and utilization of agricultural heritage.
For his part, Sadiki congratulated Qu Dongyu, who is from China, on his re-election as director-general of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.
The Moroccan minister gave the Chinese guests a detailed introduction of the country's agricultural situation and development strategy, while expressing willingness to take the signing of the MoU as an opportunity to raise the level of China-Morocco agricultural cooperation.
Agriculture plays an important role in Morocco's national economy as it accounts for more than 15 percent of Morocco's total economic output and the agricultural sector employs about 40 percent of the country's labor force. China is the largest supplier of green tea for Morocco, which has become China's second-largest tea export destination. ■