Asha Fum Khamis, a Chinese language teacher from Tanzania's Zanzibar at the Confucius Institute within the University of Dar es Salaam, speaks during an interview with Xinhua in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, Nov. 17, 2023. (Photo by Herman Emmanuel/Xinhua)
DAR ES SALAAM, Nov. 18 (Xinhua) -- "The Chinese language is the language of the day across the globe. It is the language that unlocks opportunities for the youth, locally and globally," said Asha Fum Khamis, a Chinese language teacher from Tanzania's Zanzibar at the Confucius Institute within the University of Dar es Salaam.
Expressing her sentiments further, the 32-year-old teacher said "I wish my grandparents, my parents and my siblings learned the Chinese language because that is the key to getting employment in Chinese enterprises operating in Tanzania." She shared this sentiment shortly after concluding a Chinese language class at the Confucius Institute on Friday morning.
Asha, married to a Tanzanian fluent in Chinese and a mother to a six-month-old baby boy, proudly said that she has taught Chinese to more than 300 Tanzanian students during her three years of teaching. "About 50 of the 300-plus students that I had taught have been employed as Chinese language teachers and some of them have secured decent jobs in Chinese companies based in Tanzania as interpreters."
Stressing the increasing demand for Chinese language speakers, Asha said "almost every day, officials from Chinese companies operating in Tanzania approach the Confucius Institute seeking Tanzanians proficient in Chinese."
The Confucius Institute at the University of Dar es Salaam, marking its 10th anniversary in July 2023, has played a pivotal role in fostering cultural exchanges and facilitating Chinese language learning, significantly contributing to the enhancement of China-Tanzania ties.
Established in 2013 through an agreement involving the University of Dar es Salaam, the Chinese International Education Foundation, and Zhejiang Normal University, the Confucius Institute aims to be a leading Chinese language training and testing center, fostering academic and cultural exchanges in Africa.
"Chinese language speakers are in high demand not only in Tanzania and Africa but also across the world where Chinese enterprises are in operation," she continues, mentioning that she has already begun teaching her baby boy Chinese, though uncertain if he comprehends the language.
Her passion for the Chinese language unexpectedly sparked during her time at Zanzibar Journalism and Mass Media College in 2013, where a fellow student conversed fluently with Chinese teachers. She started to learn Chinese from 2013 to 2016, earning a diploma in journalism. Notably, in 2015, she emerged as the overall winner of a Chinese language competition, subsequently earning sponsorships to participate in competitions in China.
Benefiting from sponsorships by both Tanzanian and Chinese governments, Asha pursued a degree in broadcasting in the Chinese language at the Communication University of Zhejiang from 2016 to 2020. Subsequently, the Confucius Institute offered her a scholarship for a Master's Degree in Education (Chinese language) at Harbin Normal University from 2020 to 2023.
Having joined the Confucius Institute as a Chinese language teacher in November 2021, Asha is now attached to the National College of Tourism at Temeke campus in Dar es Salaam. She envisions a bright future for the Chinese language in Tanzania, foreseeing its widespread adoption among Tanzanians, including young children, within the next decade.
"As Tanzania is targeting the Chinese tourism market, we have to teach the Chinese language to our local staff that will be dealing with the Chinese tourists," said Asha. "The future of the Chinese language in Tanzania is great. In the next 10 years, the Chinese language will be spoken by many Tanzanians, including young children." ■
Asha Fum Khamis, a Chinese language teacher from Tanzania's Zanzibar at the Confucius Institute within the University of Dar es Salaam, teaches Chinese language in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, Nov. 17, 2023. (Photo by Herman Emmanuel/Xinhua)
Asha Fum Khamis, a Chinese language teacher from Tanzania's Zanzibar at the Confucius Institute within the University of Dar es Salaam, talks with a student at a Chinese language class in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, Nov. 17, 2023. (Photo by Herman Emmanuel/Xinhua)