LUSAKA, April 25 (Xinhua) -- China and Zambia have held a reception to mark the 60th anniversary of the arrival of the first Chinese Medical Team in Africa's Algeria as well as the 45th anniversary of China-Zambia cooperation in the health sector.
The Monday event, attended by Chinese Ambassador to Zambia Du Xiaohui and Zambian Health Minister Sylvia Masebo, also saw the bidding farewell to the 23rd Chinese Medical Team as well as the welcoming of the 24th Chinese Medical Team and the 26th Chinese Military Medical Expert Team to Zambia.
The event also saw the signing of an agreement for the donation of high-tech equipment and medical supplies to the Levy Mwanawasa University Teaching Hospital.
In his remarks, the Chinese ambassador said the medical teams were builders of the China-Zambia all-weather friendship, adding that the arrival of the first Chinese medical team 45 years ago in Zambia opened a new chapter in the relationship between the two countries.
He commended the Zambian government for their support of the medical teams and the health cooperation between the two countries over the years.
According to him, China has dispatched 24 medical teams and 26 military medical teams in the past 45 years to Zambia, with a total of 993 doctors and medical experts.
He said the medical teams have treated about 6.4 million patients and conducted more than 39,000 operations as well as introduced thousands of new technologies in the health sector.
"They have contributed to the promotion of progress to the health sector in Zambia," he said.
He commended the teams for their fearlessness and their willingness and dedication to saving lives not only in Zambia but Africa as a whole.
The Chinese ambassador said the medical teams have defied any dangers and stood on the frontline to help tackle health problems in Africa, such as Ebola and the COVID-19 pandemic.
On her part, the Zambian minister commended China for the significant contribution made to the country's health sector over the years.
She said the support has been in areas such as human resources, medical supply, equipment as well as infrastructure which have gone a long way to improve healthcare delivery.
She further thanked China for the donation of high-tech equipment and medical supplies to the Levy Mwanawasa University Teaching Hospital, saying it will go a long way in improving healthcare services.
The minister commended the work of the 23rd China Medical Team, especially in the area of providing specialized services, adding that Zambia was lacking in the area of specialized medical personnel.
She commended the current leaders of the two countries for carrying forward the cordial relations established by the founding leaders of the two countries. ■