A student plays a traditional Chinese musical instrument at an exhibition of the Chinese culture week in the University of Cape Coast in Cape Coast, Ghana, on June 17, 2023. The University of Cape Coast, one of the most prestigious universities in Ghana, has kicked off its annual Chinese culture week here with spectacular shows and displays. (Photo by Seth/Xinhua)
ACCRA, June 18 (Xinhua) -- The University of Cape Coast, one of the most prestigious universities in Ghana, has kicked off its annual Chinese culture week here with spectacular shows and displays in Cape Coast, Ghana's Central Region.
Celebrating the opening day on Saturday, a selection of Chinese folk arts, culture and musical forms, blended spectacularly with Ghanaian cultural displays, was put on by students from the Confucius Institute and primary school affiliated with the university.
The well-drilled cultural troupe entertained the audience with stunning performances in Chinese martial art, lion dance, and other Chinese folk arts. The students also did story-telling in the Chinese language with great confidence and a grasp of the fundamentals of Chinese.
Also performed were traditional Ghanaian adowa and kete dance forms, backed by the traditional Ghanaian acoustic drums and gong-gong.
Johnson Nyarko Boampong, vice-chancellor of the University of Cape Coast, said in his opening remarks that the cultural performances during the week-long celebration would both entertain and serve as a reminder of the power of art to transcend language barriers and connect Ghanaians and Chinese on a profound level.
"Culture is the fabric that weaves us all together, transcending boundaries and unifying us as a global community," Bompong said.
"This cultural event which features both Ghanaian and Chinese performances, serves as a testament to the commitment of this university to foster a harmonious environment where traditions, art forms, and experiences from around the world are cherished and celebrated," he added.
The vice-chancellor expressed profound gratitude to a delegation from central China's Hunan Province for their continued support for the collaboration between the University of Cape Coast and Hunan City University.
"We are fortunate to have among us today esteemed individuals who have played a significant role in promoting education and cultural exchanges between the people of China and Ghana. I believe this event will leave them with fond memories of our university long after they have left the shores of Ghana," said Boampong.
He Zhen, president of the Hunan City University, lauded the University of Cape Coast for supporting the establishment and the rapid growth of the Confucius Institute at the university.
"As cultural messengers, you have worked tirelessly, overcome difficulties, devoted yourself to work and study with enthusiasm, and made your hard work and selfless dedication to promoting cultural exchanges between China and Ghana. I want to express my sincere gratitude to you," He added. ■
Students perform martial arts during the Chinese culture week in the University of Cape Coast in Cape Coast, Ghana, on June 17, 2023. The University of Cape Coast, one of the most prestigious universities in Ghana, has kicked off its annual Chinese culture week here with spectacular shows and displays. (Photo by Seth/Xinhua)
Student pose with Chinese-style artifacts while visiting an exhibition of the Chinese culture week in the University of Cape Coast in Cape Coast, Ghana, on June 17, 2023. The University of Cape Coast, one of the most prestigious universities in Ghana, has kicked off its annual Chinese culture week here with spectacular shows and displays. (Photo by Seth/Xinhua)