Participants attend the opening ceremony of the 2023 China-Africa Innovation Cooperation and Development Forum in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, July 6, 2023. Eighteen China-Africa scientific and technological projects were inked Thursday in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, according to local authorities.
The deals, involving areas like advanced technology, modern agriculture, health sciences, and higher education, were announced at the ongoing 2023 China-Africa Innovation Cooperation and Development Forum. (Photo by Du Zixuan/Xinhua)
WUHAN, July 6 (Xinhua) -- Eighteen China-Africa scientific and technological projects were inked Thursday in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, according to local authorities.
The deals, involving areas like advanced technology, modern agriculture, health sciences, and higher education, were announced at the ongoing 2023 China-Africa Innovation Cooperation and Development Forum.
Chinese universities, alongside research and medical institutions as well as corporations, have entered into partnerships with their African counterparts in Ethiopia, Nigeria, Egypt, Ghana, South Africa, Tunisia, Kenya, and Mozambique.
The partnerships cover diverse areas such as smart city development, multimedia communication, energy storage, water-saving irrigation, sesame variety improvement, prevention and treatment of tumors, and infrastructure.
Zhang Xiao, director of the China-Africa Innovation Cooperation Center, noted that the extensive coverage of the signed projects reflects the deepening innovative collaboration between China and Africa. ■
Participants watch a performance at the opening ceremony of the 2023 China-Africa Innovation Cooperation and Development Forum in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, July 6, 2023. Eighteen China-Africa scientific and technological projects were inked Thursday in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, according to local authorities.
The deals, involving areas like advanced technology, modern agriculture, health sciences, and higher education, were announced at the ongoing 2023 China-Africa Innovation Cooperation and Development Forum. (Xinhua/Wu Zhizun)