A contestant performs during the Chinese bridge competition at the University of Nairobi in Nairobi, Kenya, May 12, 2023. The 22nd Chinese bridge-Chinese language proficiency competition for foreign college students was held at the University of Nairobi, Kenya's oldest University, Friday with winners scooping prizes and certificates of recognition. (Xinhua/Wang Guansen)
NAIROBI, May 12 (Xinhua) -- The 22nd Chinese bridge-Chinese language proficiency competition for foreign college students was held at the University of Nairobi, Kenya's oldest University, Friday with winners scooping prizes and certificates of recognition.
Among the participants at the Kenya division finals of the Chinese language proficiency competition were diplomats, business executives, university faculty members and students.
The first round of the competition which attracted 18 college students involved Chinese speech as well as a question-and-answer session, while the second round of the contest focused on a talent show.
Zhao Xiyuan, the minister counselor at the Chinese Embassy in Kenya, reiterated the significance of this year's Chinese bridge competition, which coincides with the 60th anniversary of China-Kenya diplomatic relations alongside the tenth anniversary of the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative.
In addition, Zhao underscored the critical role of language and culture in cementing bonds of friendship between China and Kenya, adding that the two countries are committed to the pursuit of shared dreams.
Zhao said that local youth who are pursuing the Chinese language in tertiary institutions are well-positioned to become ambassadors for championing Sino-Kenyan cooperation and friendship.
Julius Ogeng'o, the deputy vice-chancellor in charge of academic affairs at the University of Nairobi, noted that Chinese language proficiency has gained prominence in global academic and cultural exchanges.
Ogeng'o said that mastery of spoken and written Mandarin will place local youth at the heart of efforts to revitalize China-Kenya cooperation in fields that advance mutual benefits.
Drawn from tertiary institutions spread across different parts of Kenya, the youthful contestants impressed judges and the general audience thanks to their mastery of spoken Mandarin, classical music and dance.
Amos Agwata Michira, a 21-year-old Chinese language major at the University of Nairobi's Confucius Institute, emerged the overall winner, having presented an electrifying speech extolling the need to foster Sino-Kenyan friendship and cooperation in order to realize shared dreams. ■
The audience applaud the contestants during the Chinese bridge competition at the University of Nairobi in Nairobi, Kenya, May 12, 2023. The 22nd Chinese bridge-Chinese language proficiency competition for foreign college students was held at the University of Nairobi, Kenya's oldest University, Friday with winners scooping prizes and certificates of recognition. (Xinhua/Wang Guansen)
People perform during the Chinese bridge competition at the University of Nairobi in Nairobi, Kenya, May 12, 2023. The 22nd Chinese bridge-Chinese language proficiency competition for foreign college students was held at the University of Nairobi, Kenya's oldest University, Friday with winners scooping prizes and certificates of recognition. (Xinhua/Wang Guansen)
Contestants wait backstage during the Chinese bridge competition at the University of Nairobi in Nairobi, Kenya, May 12, 2023. The 22nd Chinese bridge-Chinese language proficiency competition for foreign college students was held at the University of Nairobi, Kenya's oldest University, Friday with winners scooping prizes and certificates of recognition. (Xinhua/Wang Guansen)
Contestants wait backstage during the Chinese bridge competition at the University of Nairobi in Nairobi, Kenya, May 12, 2023. The 22nd Chinese bridge-Chinese language proficiency competition for foreign college students was held at the University of Nairobi, Kenya's oldest University, Friday with winners scooping prizes and certificates of recognition. (Xinhua/Wang Guansen)
Amos Agwata Michira, a 21-year-old Chinese language major at the University of Nairobi's Confucius Institute, performs kuaiban, a form of Chinese clapper talk show, during the Chinese bridge competition at the University of Nairobi in Nairobi, Kenya, May 12, 2023. The 22nd Chinese bridge-Chinese language proficiency competition for foreign college students was held at the University of Nairobi, Kenya's oldest University, Friday with winners scooping prizes and certificates of recognition. (Xinhua/Wang Guansen)
A contestant performs during the Chinese bridge competition at the University of Nairobi in Nairobi, Kenya, May 12, 2023. The 22nd Chinese bridge-Chinese language proficiency competition for foreign college students was held at the University of Nairobi, Kenya's oldest University, Friday with winners scooping prizes and certificates of recognition. (Xinhua/Wang Guansen)