A contestant takes part in the 22nd Chinese Bridge competition for learning the Chinese language in Algiers, Algeria, on May 24, 2023. The final stage of the 22nd Chinese Bridge competition for learning the Chinese language was held Wednesday at the Algiers 2 University. (Xinhua)
ALGIERS, May 24 (Xinhua) -- The final stage of the 22nd Chinese Bridge competition for learning the Chinese language was held Wednesday at the Algiers 2 University.
The event included a series of captivating programs with participators displaying Kung-fu performance, a dance with umbrellas, traditional Chinese calligraphy works, and singing Chinese songs.
Themed "One World, One Family," all the performances highlighted the rich Chinese cultural heritage and strong bilateral ties between China and Algeria.
Chinese Ambassador to Algeria Li Jian, representative of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research Tayeb Bouzid, and Rector of Algiers 2 University Said Boumaiza attended the event.
Li hailed the wonderful performance of the participants at the contest, expressing his hope that "all Chinese language learners make use of their linguistic advantages and rich knowledge to be messengers of humanistic exchanges while inheriting the tradition of friendship shared between China and Algeria."
For his part, Bouzid said that language is the key to understanding culture and Algeria attaches great importance to cooperation with China in the field of higher education, hoping the two countries further deepen interschool cooperation and strengthen exchanges in foreign language teaching.
"The Chinese language is the most popular language in the world," said the rector, adding that Algiers 2 University is willing to cooperate closely with Chinese partners for promoting teaching and spreading the Chinese culture to continuously strengthen the exchanges between the universities of China and Algeria.
As China and Algeria are enhancing economic and diplomatic ties, the demand for learning the Chinese language has soared in the North African country. ■
A contestant takes part in the 22nd Chinese Bridge competition for learning the Chinese language in Algiers, Algeria, on May 24, 2023. The final stage of the 22nd Chinese Bridge competition for learning the Chinese language was held Wednesday at the Algiers 2 University. (Xinhua)
A contestant takes part in the 22nd Chinese Bridge competition for learning the Chinese language in Algiers, Algeria, on May 24, 2023. The final stage of the 22nd Chinese Bridge competition for learning the Chinese language was held Wednesday at the Algiers 2 University. (Xinhua)