Iqbal Surve, chairman of South Africa's Independent Media, takes an interview with Xinhua in Cape Town, South Africa, Nov. 7, 2023. The fifth World Media Summit comes at an opportune time and plays a vital role in providing the truth and presenting both sides of the story, making it "a really important international media summit," Iqbal Surve, chairman of South Africa's Independent Media, told Xinhua in a recent interview. (Xinhua/Wang Lei)
by Xinhua writer Wang Lei
CAPE TOWN, Dec. 2 (Xinhua) -- The fifth World Media Summit comes at an opportune time and plays a vital role in providing the truth and presenting both sides of the story, making it "a really important international media summit," Iqbal Surve, chairman of South Africa's Independent Media, told Xinhua in a recent interview.
The summit is "a really, really important occasion" as it brings together global media organizations to share their respective ideas, said Surve, who is attending the summit from Dec. 2 to 8 in the Chinese cities of Guangzhou and Kunming.
Emphasizing the social responsibilities of the media, the chairman underscored the paramount importance of truth as the foundational principle for all media organizations.
Media's role extends beyond conveying facts, Surve said, adding that it should serve as a catalyst for social-economic change and development.
"If we have one task only as a social responsibility, that task is to ensure that media must be a change agent in the world today, to promote a common humanity and a shared future and shared prosperity," he added.
Highlighting the crucial importance of effective communication within countries, between countries and across regions to ensure a better understanding of facts and foster collaboration for peaceful coexistence, Surve said, "The role of the media is absolutely critical in that communication."
As a seasoned media leader who has paid over 20 visits to China, Surve praised Chinese modernization and China's commitment to mutual development under the concept of a community with a shared future for mankind.
In his view, the development of BRICS and the Belt and Road cooperation enabled China's partners to learn from this modernization so as to achieve common development.
Quoting the old saying "A rising tide lifts all ships," he stressed the importance of development that benefits everyone. "If Africa develops, if South Africa develops, China benefits. China develops, we benefit."
Surve said China and Africa can have common development in a mutually beneficial way, and eventually people in the BRICS Plus and Global South countries can have a better life and better future. ■