The Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania Chen Mingjian (2nd R) introduces the outcomes of the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation held in Beijing last week during a press briefing in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, on Oct. 26, 2023. Chen Mingjian announced on Thursday that China intends to continue promoting Belt and Road cooperation with Tanzania, jointly advancing toward a better future of modernization. (Xinhua/Li Yahui)
DAR ES SALAAM, Oct. 26 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania, Chen Mingjian, announced on Thursday that China intends to continue promoting Belt and Road cooperation with Tanzania, jointly advancing toward a better future of modernization.
Chen made the remarks during a press briefing in Dar es Salaam, the commercial hub of Tanzania, in which she introduced the outcomes of the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation held in Beijing last week.
She highlighted the progress made in the two countries' cooperation on the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) over the past decade, particularly in infrastructure development, economy and trade, investment and people-to-people exchanges.
Chen called on the two countries to tap the potential for enhancing infrastructure connectivity, improving trade and economic exchanges and deepening mutually beneficial cooperation in green development, the digital economy, and the blue economy.
Furthermore, Chen noted that the forum attracted over 10,000 representatives from 151 countries and 41 international organizations, describing it as a historic event of great significance.
The forum celebrated the 10th anniversary of the BRI, during which China has signed over 200 Belt and Road cooperation agreements with more than 150 countries and 30 international organizations.
Chen pointed out that 2024 will mark the 60th anniversary of China-Tanzania relations, saying China is ready to take this forum as an opportunity to collaborate with Tanzanian partners in addressing challenges and pursuing mutual development. ■