This photo taken on July 8, 2024 shows the new headquarters of the Bank of South Sudan built by China's Shandong Hi-Speed Group Co (SDHS) in Juba, capital of South Sudan.South Sudan's President Salva Kiir on Monday inaugurated the new headquarters of the Bank of South Sudan built by a Chinese firm as part of the country's Independence Day celebration on July 9. (Photo by Denis Elamu/Xinhua)
JUBA, July 8 (Xinhua) -- South Sudan's President Salva Kiir on Monday inaugurated the new headquarters of the Bank of South Sudan built by a Chinese firm as part of the country's Independence Day celebration on July 9.
The 12-storey building, constructed by China's Shandong Hi-Speed Group Co (SDHS), is an iconic gift to the people of South Sudan, Kiir said.
Kiir also urged officials and citizens to focus on improving economic growth and promoting peace and social harmony in the country.
Also attending the ceremony was Ma Qiang, Chinese ambassador to South Sudan. "As a good friend and good partner, China affirms its support to the South Sudanese government and people to actively explore the development path that suits their national conditions," said Ma.
China is willing to continue to provide necessary assistance to the peace process and economic and social development of South Sudan within its capacity, he added.
James Alic Garang, governor of the Bank of South Sudan, said the new building will not only improve the service delivery efficiency of the apex bank but also attract foreign investment and help stabilize the financial sector.
Around 800 engineers and workers were mobilized to ensure that the project was completed on time, said Zhang Bin, representative of the SDHS, expressing his appreciation for the support from the management and staff of the Bank of South Sudan.
Construction of the central bank's headquarters began in February 2022. ■
This photo taken on July 8, 2024 shows the new headquarters of the Bank of South Sudan built by China's Shandong Hi-Speed Group Co (SDHS) in Juba, capital of South Sudan. South Sudan's President Salva Kiir on Monday inaugurated the new headquarters of the Bank of South Sudan built by a Chinese firm as part of the country's Independence Day celebration on July 9. (Photo by Denis Elamu/Xinhua)