NAIROBI, Sept. 3 (Xinhua) -- Growing up in Kenya's central Kirinyaga County, Chomba Nyaga and his neighbors witnessed firsthand the degradation of Kiringa River, a once-pristine waterway long revered by the local community. The riverbanks suffered from severe soil erosion, water levels dwindled and pollution worsened due to climate change and human activities, such as upstream irrigation.
Determined to take action, Nyaga, now the chairman of the Kirinyaga Bamboo Environmental Guardians group, and his peers were convinced that planting trees along the riverbanks could help restore the environment. Although some owned tree nurseries with diverse species, they opted to plant two varieties of Chinese bamboo due to their rapid growth and numerous economic benefits.
With guidance from the China-based International Bamboo and Rattan Organization, along with support from the Bamboo Association of Kenya and the Kenya Forestry Research Institute, the group decided to use their newly acquired knowledge and skills to address the situation.
"These institutions opened our eyes to the potential of bamboo," Nyaga said in a recent interview with Xinhua. "We aimed to create a bamboo canopy to reduce evaporation from the river, increase tree cover and mitigate the effects of climate change."
The bamboo would also enhance the river's beauty, purify the air, prevent soil erosion, absorb harmful minerals from the water and help cool the river.
To kickstart the project, Nyaga imported two kg of bamboo seeds from China -- one kg each of the Dendrocalamus asper and Dendrocalamus giganteus varieties. Meanwhile, other group members sourced propagation materials for these varieties locally.
"We have planted bamboo trees along a four-km stretch of the riverbank. Some of the trees have matured, and within the next one or two years, they will be ready for harvesting while continuing to stabilize the soil," Nyaga said.
The group has planted around 1,500 bamboo trees so far, with plans to plant 10,000 more along a 20-km stretch on both sides of the river, spacing the trees about five meters apart. Although they initially set a three-year timeline to complete the project, propagation challenges have slowed progress.
"If we succeed, the bamboo canopy will cover the river entirely from an aerial view," Nyaga added.
Helen Kareu, a project beneficiary, explains the benefits of the wide range of bamboo's uses, from producing lumber and building materials to making artifacts, cooking briquettes, garments, tiles and house ceilings. "Recently, we learned that bamboo can even be used to make sanitary pads," Kareu said.
Bamboo can also be transformed into biochar, a soil conditioner created by burning wood mass in limited oxygen, a process known as pyrolysis. The resulting product is ground into small particles and spread over the land to improve soil quality.
While indigenous African bamboo varieties like Bambusa vulgaris exist, the group opted for the faster-growing exotic varieties from China. Bamboo can be propagated through tubers, cuttings, tissue culture, or seeds, though seeds are the most efficient and economical option. However, Nyaga pointed out that bamboo seeds are scarce in Africa and typically have to be imported from Asian countries like China.
Unlike other trees that must be entirely cut down, bamboo has multiple stems. When one stem is cut, new shoots sprout, allowing for continuous harvesting. The group members encouraged communities living near riparian areas to care for bamboo trees, noting both their environmental and economic benefits.
"I also appeal to well-wishers and experts in bamboo propagation to assist us in maximizing bamboo's economic value," Kareu said.
Michael Kinyua of Rohaki Investment, a company that adds value to bamboo, confirmed its economic potential. "Farmers are happy because they now have a market for bamboo, which they've grown for years without knowing its worth. Now, they have a reason to plant more," Kinyua said.
In addition to combating climate change, Kinyua's company has developed bamboo charcoal briquettes that are as effective as traditional charcoal, lasting longer and costing less. Bamboo briquettes sell for between 0.54 to 0.77 U.S. dollars per kg, depending on the season.
"Bamboo is one of the fastest-growing plants in the world, making it the best alternative for charcoal production. It reduces the need to cut down trees, helping mitigate climate change," Kinyua said. ■