Chinese Ambassador to Egypt Liao Liqiang delivers a speech during a promotion event for the Arabic edition of "Xi Jinping: The Governance of China" in Cairo, Egypt, April 24, 2024. Over 100 representatives from China and Arab countries attended the event held here on Wednesday. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai)
CAIRO, April 26 (Xinhua) -- A promotion event was held in the Egyptian capital Cairo on Wednesday for the Arabic edition of "Xi Jinping: The Governance of China."
Over 100 representatives from China and Arab countries attended the event.
Former Egyptian Prime Minister Essam Sharaf said that "Xi Jinping: The Governance of China" clearly portrays China's vision to the international community, shares experience from China's modernization drive without reservation, and helps readers better understand Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era as well as China's current policies.
It presented a China that is reliable, admirable and respectable, Sharaf added.
While addressing the event, Hussein Al-Hindawi, Assistant Secretary-General of the Arab League, said that the books are full of China's classical, time-honored and ever-new governance concepts, which can be regarded as a model in the world.
Mohamed Rashad, president of the Arab Publishers Association, said that the Arabic edition can help readers comprehensively and systematically understand President Xi Jinping's political views, thoughts and theories, as well as the rich connotation and important values of building a community with a shared future for mankind and promoting the Chinese-style modernization.
Du Zhanyuan, president of China International Communications Group (CICG), said the books have always been considered as a "window of thought" for the world to understand China.
They are a reliable source for readers worldwide to understand China's approach to and theory of governance in the new era and the modern civilization of the Chinese nation, he said, adding that President Xi's important statements embody the value of "people first" as well as a people-centered philosophy of development in the country's governance.
The books also reveal the internal logic of the Chinese-style modernization and provide reference and inspiration for developing countries to explore their roads to modernization, Du said.
Chinese Ambassador to Egypt Liao Liqiang said that "Xi Jinping: The Governance of China" is a guide to decoding Chinese-style modernization, a treasure trove showcasing China's sense of responsibility as a major country, and a window to see the charming personality of the Chinese leader.
In a series of new ideas and initiatives, President Xi has shown China's firm determination to follow the path of peaceful development, and expressed China's sincere wish to bring benefits for the whole world through its development, Liao said.
The promotion event was sponsored by the CICG and the Chinese Embassy in Egypt and hosted by the Foreign Languages Press and the CICG's Center for Europe and Africa. ■
Du Zhanyuan, president of China International Communications Group, delivers a speech during a promotion event for the Arabic edition of "Xi Jinping: The Governance of China" in Cairo, Egypt, April 24, 2024. Over 100 representatives from China and Arab countries attended the event held here on Wednesday. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai)
Former Egyptian Prime Minister Essam Sharaf delivers a speech during a promotion event for the Arabic edition of "Xi Jinping: The Governance of China" in Cairo, Egypt, April 24, 2024. Over 100 representatives from China and Arab countries attended the event held here on Wednesday. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai)