NAIROBI, July 13 (Xinhua) -- When Kevin Kimani visited the East Africa (Kenya) Fashion Life Show in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital, on Friday, the 24-year-old youth fell for elegant Chinese fabric and designer wear on display in many exhibition stands.
His excitement palpable, Kimani who is a communications major, said that part of the reason he was drawn to the Chinese-made garment was their exotic appearance and friendly pricing.
The youngster revealed that a mutual friend alerted him about the East African (Kenya) Fashion Life Show and International Small Commodities Expo At Sarit Expo Center that runs from July 10 to 13, attracting 60 exhibitors, of which 40 are local and 20 are Chinese, adding that his visit was motivated by a desire to explore fashionable clothes and shoes from China.
"I decided to come and see for myself the good things Chinese exhibitors have, especially clothes that are in fashion. The Chinese fashion is different from others and its unique features are texture and color," Kimani said.
Kenyans in their dozens defied balmy weather to visit the fashion show and the expo where Chinese exhibitors showcased a wide range of products including household items, textile and apparel, beauty and personal care, children's toys and electronics.
Gao Wei, the managing director of Afripeak Expo Kenya and organizer of the four-day event, said it aimed to serve as a bridge for connecting Chinese and local fashion industries, foster cultural exchange and understanding.
He noted that a fusion of China's advanced manufacturing capabilities and Kenya's ingenuity will lead to the production of high-quality and culturally rich fashion items that appeal to global consumers.
At the Shaoxing Shifan Import & Export Co. Ltd exhibition stand, Debra Ndegwa, a 26-year-old marketer, was in high spirits as she engaged visitors attracted to brightly colored Chinese fabric on display. Ndegwa showcased Chinese fabric for making curtains, pillowcases and cushions to local visitors who in turn made purchases and promised to make referrals to relatives and friends.
"All I can say is that Kenyans are embracing the Chinese fabrics because their quality and the prices are friendly. It is easier to import fabric from China," Ndegwa said.
She disclosed her fascination with Chinese-made clothes, adding that her youthful peers too have turned to designer outfits from China in line with growing cultural solidarity.
Walking briskly at the rooftop of the upscale shopping complex where the East African Fashion Life Show is taking place, Abdulrahim Weku, a businessman, carted away a tastefully decorated Chinese fabric that he had just bought. A widely traveled entrepreneur, Weku observed that Chinese clothes have struck a chord with Kenyans aspiring for sartorial elegance.
Chinese investors in the textile and apparel sector are keen to export fashionable garments and shoes to Kenya, even as they explore the wider African market, said Tony Lau, the managing director of Blackwood International (Jinan) Co. Ltd.
Lau said that a partnership with local designers and distributors will be key to raising the visibility of Chinese fashion in Kenya, adding he intends to engage with local shopping malls to facilitate export of customized men's, women's clothing and school uniforms to Kenya.
Silas Musyoka, the marketplace operations manager at Kilimall, an e-commerce platform, said that Chinese-manufactured products including clothes, shoes, curtains and carpets are popular among local buyers, given their guarantee of quality and affordability.
The fashion show, according to Musyoka, presented an opportunity for Chinese investors in the textile and apparel sector to interact with local clients, understand their sartorial preferences.
Millicent Awuor, a female entrepreneur dealing with children's clothes, said that during her visit to the expo, she met Chinese suppliers and exporters of designer wear, with whom they discussed possible areas of collaboration.
She observed that Chinese fabric is authentic and cost-friendly even as she mooted plans to diversify to men's clothing imported from China in a bid to boost growth of her business. ■