BEIJING, Oct. 22 (Xinhua) -- Mariza Cabral Gomes and his wife, two farmers on the African island nation of Sao Tome and Principe, never imagined they would be growing vegetable varieties that were once available only as imports -- until Chinese agricultural experts arrived.
With the help of Chinese experts, from December 2021, the couple began growing crops introduced by Chinese experts, such as tomatoes, cabbages, Chinese bok choy and peppers in Caldeiras Village, while also learning vegetable cultivation and management techniques, particularly greenhouse construction methods.
Since 2017, China has sent four teams of experts to assist the country in its agricultural development. Through a comprehensive agricultural and livestock technical assistance project, Chinese experts have been working with local authorities to improve farming practices.
Over the years, the project has changed the lives of many, and Mariza Cabral Gomes and his wife are among the first farmers to benefit from it.
Less than a year after receiving assistance from the experts, the vegetable farming area of the couple doubled, and their household income increased significantly. They are now debt-free, and all three of their children are attending school.
Sao Tome and Principe is located off the Atlantic coast of Africa, and agriculture and livestock farming are key pillars of its national economy, with about 70 percent of the population engaged in related production activities. However, it has long relied on imports for vegetables and chicks.
"Drawing on China's experience in poverty alleviation, we established the first poverty-reduction demonstration village in Caldeiras, helping farmers increase their incomes through vegetable cultivation and poultry farming," said Duan Zhenhua, head of the fourth Chinese agricultural expert team.
Given the high temperatures and humidity in the country, which exacerbate pest and disease problems in vegetables, agricultural experts specially designed greenhouses for the local population. These greenhouses offer various benefits, such as rain protection, ventilation and water conservation, greatly increasing yields.
"Our assistance work in the village of Nova Moca has also been fully rolled out, covering areas such as livestock and poultry, vegetable farming, cultivation and rural energy. In the future, we aim to help even more farmers lift themselves out of poverty," said Duan.
The work of Chinese experts in Sao Tome and Principe offers a glimpse at the broader picture of agricultural cooperation between China and Africa.
According to the 2024 edition of the United Nations report "State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World," one in five people in Africa may have faced hunger in 2023.
In Burundi, Chinese experts have chosen village number four of Ninga in Bubanza Province as a demonstration village for poverty reduction and developed a new model of agricultural assistance.
In simple terms, the expert team provides funding for the purchase of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides as initial production inputs. After the harvest, farmers return the initial funding to a designated account for the next season's production. This cycle addresses the issue of funding and ensures sustainable development.
Thanks to this assistance, the villagers have seen significant income growth, with the per capita annual income rising from 25 U.S. dollars in 2015 to 450 dollars in 2022, making it a national model for development in Burundi.
Since 2006, the Center of International Cooperation Service of China's Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs has sent a total of 87 senior agricultural teams, comprising 883 experts, to 36 African countries.
These teams have trained nearly 100,000 local participants and imparted 1,000 practical techniques, making a great contribution to helping African farmers escape poverty and pursue a better life.
"We are willing to use Chinese technology, experience and expertise to make China's poverty alleviation practice continue to 'bear fruit' in Africa," said Duan. ■