ADDIS ABABA, May 11 (Xinhua) -- Chinese enterprises in Ethiopia have launched a "volunteer project" in a bid to provide high quality voluntary and community services in the east African country.
Led by the China Foundation for Rural Development (CFRD), the Chinese Enterprises Volunteer Project was officially launched on Friday in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia.
Speaking at the launching ceremony, deputy director of the Chinese Enterprises Volunteer Project Yan Kun said the project is part of Chinese enterprises' commitment to discharging their social corporate responsibility in Ethiopia and enhancing friendship between the peoples of China and Ethiopia.
"The Chinese Enterprises Volunteer Project centers on the principle of public diplomacy, aiming at accelerating the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals in Ethiopia," Yan said.
He said the project undoubtedly serves as a powerful catalyst to further strengthen collaboration, mutual understanding and enduring friendship between China and Ethiopia.
Wang Zishu, a representative from China Communications Construction Company, who also represents the Chinese volunteers, said the project will provide a platform for young volunteers from Chinese enterprises to have more opportunities and participate in local public welfare activities.
"The launch of this volunteer project is not only a concrete action but also the inheritance and advancement of selfless dedication and altruistic spirit," Wang said.
Sharing his observations in Ethiopia, Wang said Ethiopia is experiencing unprecedented development, with emerging projects spread across the country including construction of modern buildings, expansion of agricultural irrigation systems in remote areas and construction of many industrial parks among others.
According to Wang Haoyu, CFRD's senior program manager, the voluntary services by Chinese enterprises will focus on community-centered development, cultural exchanges and provision of skill development training for children, women and the youth to help them be more competitive in the labor market or gain basic life-long skills.
Wang told Xinhua that the project aims to provide high quality voluntary services to the local community and further enhance relationships between the peoples of China and other countries participating in China's Belt and Road Initiative.
Chinese companies have invested in more than 2,200 projects in Ethiopia, creating 560,000 local jobs, it was noted at the event. ■