CAIRO, Feb. 14 (Xinhua) -- Egyptians and overseas Chinese in Cairo have celebrated the Spring Festival, or the Chinese Lunar New Year, with great joy and goodwill.
The Egyptian Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities sponsored the Year of the Dragon event on Sunday near the Giza pyramids to welcome Chinese tourists to explore more of Egypt's rich cultural heritage.
Chinese and Egyptian folklore dances were performed and a parachuting show carrying new year messages was staged to welcome the Chinese visitors and send them good wishes during the Spring Festival.
Ghada Shalaby, Egypt's vice minister of tourism and antiquities, said in a statement on Saturday her country pays a lot of attention to the Chinese market, adding that Egypt is an attractive destination for Chinese visitors who are interested in cultural tourism.
Some companies in Cairo also held celebrations with Chinese Lunar New Year-themed elements.
Employees at the Bayt Al-Hekma Cultural Group, a publishing house specializing in Arabic translations of Chinese literary works, are busy hanging Chinese lanterns and decorations of Loong, or the Chinese dragon, a mythical and auspicious creature that is a symbol of good luck, strength, health and power in China.
Bilingual couplets and the Chinese character "fu" calligraphed on red paper, meaning blessings and good fortune, are pasted and displayed at the company's office in Cairo.
"We have been celebrating the Spring Festival since Saturday in many recreational, cultural, and educational activities, including inviting Egyptians to write their names in Chinese calligraphy," said Yara Ibrahim, an employee with the group.
Guests, especially children and young people, were very happy to watch Chinese movies and try different kinds of Chinese food at the event, Ibrahim said.
Interpoint Tours Travel, a travel agency in Egypt, has organized several celebrations for both Chinese and Egyptian tourists.
Ashraf ElEwa, CEO of the agency, said visitors have been amazed by Spring Festival-themed events held at hotels and other tourist destinations.
On Feb. 10, Huawei Egypt organized a large banquette for Chinese and Egyptian workers to improve communication and mutual understanding, said Dina Youssef, a public relations staffer of the company.
"Celebrations marking the most important festival in China brought peoples in both Egypt and China closer," Youssef added. ■