Tunisian President Kais Saied (1st R, front) and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi (1st L, front), also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, visit the library of the International Diplomatic Academy of Tunis in Tunisia, Jan. 15, 2024. Wang addressed a ceremony held in the Tunisian capital of Tunis on Monday to inaugurate the China-built International Diplomatic Academy of Tunis, which was also attended by Tunisian President Kais Saied and Tunisian Foreign Minister Nabil Ammar. (Xinhua/Huang Ling)
TUNIS, Jan. 15 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Monday spoke highly of the "great friendship" achieved by China and Tunisia during the past six decades since the establishment of their diplomatic ties.
Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks at a ceremony held in the Tunisian capital of Tunis to inaugurate the China-built International Diplomatic Academy of Tunis, which was also attended by Tunisian President Kais Saied and Tunisian Foreign Minister Nabil Ammar.
It took eight years to build the academy, the only one of its kind that China has helped build in an Arab country, the Chinese top diplomat noted.
The academy, which has demonstrated the high level and quality of the China-Tunisia ties, will become a new symbol of and platform for carrying forward the traditional China-Tunisia friendship, he added.
Over the past decades, China and Tunisia have firmly supported each other in safeguarding independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, and choosing their own paths of development, Wang said.
The two countries have also achieved fruitful results in pragmatic cooperation by successfully implementing a number of high-quality projects to improve people's livelihoods, maintaining close communication and coordination in international and regional affairs, and working together to safeguard common interests as well as international fairness and justice, he said.
At the ceremony, Wang also called for building an equal and orderly multipolar world and advancing an inclusive economic globalization that benefits all.
He underscored that all countries, big or small, strong or weak, rich or poor, should play their due role and enjoy the right to development and revitalization.
Ammar, for his part, said that this year marks the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Tunisia and China, which have achieved smooth progress in bilateral cooperation in various fields.
Strengthening the bilateral friendship is the shared political wish of both sides and conforms to the common interests of the two countries and their peoples, said Ammar.
He expressed gratitude to China for building the academy, which is the concrete result of the joint construction of the Belt and Road and has crystallized the profound friendship between Tunisia and China.
Tunisia will use the academy as a bridge for boosting mutual understanding and exchanges between Tunisia and China, as well as the rest of the world, the Tunisian top diplomat said. ■