SHIJIAZHUANG, Sept. 13 (Xinhua) -- By applying the techniques Augustine Phiri learnt in China to his hometown's farmland, the corn yield in Malawi's experimental field increased dramatically so far this year, rising from 2.1 tonnes per hectare in 2023 to 8 tonnes per hectare -- nearly four times the previous yield.
In 2019, Augustine Phiri embarked on a three-year agricultural technology study program in China as part of the Sino-Africa Science and Technology Backyard (STB) Project.
This project brought together 34 African students from eight countries to enhance their knowledge and practical skills in modern agricultural practices in 2019, when it was launched by the China Agricultural University at the Quzhou Experimental Station in north China's Hebei Province.
Up to now, a total of 91 international students from 12 African countries have participated in the project.
"The project addresses the gap between agricultural theory and practice in Africa, as well as the shortage of skilled agricultural workers. Our aim is to train a new generation of innovative talent with both modern agricultural theoretical knowledge and hands-on skills to improve smallholder farmers' productivity and agricultural standards across Africa," said Jiao Xiaoqiang, head of the program and an associate professor at the university's college of resources and environmental sciences.
Francina Lerata Kuwali, another student involved in the program, highlighted the severe impact of the El Nino phenomenon on Malawi. The southeastern African nation has experienced frequent droughts and floods in recent years. On March 23, Malawi President Lazarus Chakwera declared a national state of disaster in 23 districts of the country hit by a dry spell caused by El Nino, which has left those districts with little or no harvest.
However, under the guidance of students from the Sino-Africa STB Project, 15 farmers in Malawi reported an average corn yield of 7.9 tonnes per hectare in April -- more than triple the yields compared to the previous year. This not only solved food security concerns but also provided surplus crops for these farmers, helping to boost local food production.
"During our study, we spent the first year completing the theoretical courses and practical training in China. In the second year, we applied these skills in Africa, and in the third year, we returned to China to write and defend our theses. Throughout the process, the professors provided guidance via WeChat, with important issues resolved through online meetings," said Francina.
Jiao added that international students play a vital role in encouraging African farmers to engage in experiments, helping them master and spread agricultural technology. By combining the knowledge gained in China with the realities of African farming, students help localize these technologies, ultimately driving productivity for smallholder farmers. In Mzuzu City, northern Malawi, farmers have composed this story into a song to express their gratitude.
Having recently returned from a visit to Kenya, Jiao shared that the future plans include expanding the Sino-Africa STB Project to other African nations such as Kenya, Zambia and Ethiopia.
China feeds over 1.4 billion people with only 9 percent of the world's arable land. The agricultural technology is well-suited to the needs of Africa's smallholder farmers, and African agriculture can greatly benefit from China's agricultural expertise, said Jiao. ■