by Zhao Weiping
How should we characterize the relationship between China and Namibia? This is the question often asked of me as the Chinese Ambassador to Namibia, and it is quite pertinent given the upcoming 2024 Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in China's capital city of Beijing. The answer is a relationship characterized by traditional friendship, shared interests and growth potential.
The friendship between China and Namibia was forged long before their establishment of diplomatic relations in 1990, dating back to the 1960s when China gave full support to Namibia's struggle for national independence led by the South West Africa People's Organisation Party, which has since then become a close friend of the Communist Party of China. Almost every year, on important occasions such as celebrating Namibian Independence Day and Heroes' Day, Namibian leaders mention the country's history with China. Many Namibians cordially call their Chinese friends "comrades."
The past 34 years of China-Namibia relations have been smooth, amiable and fruitful, fully demonstrating the mutual support and help between two faithful friends. Namibia never wavered in its firm adherence to the one-China principle and has always stood with China on issues concerning the latter's core interests. China, for its part, has been consistently developing its diplomatic relations with Namibia in the spirit of South-South cooperation and according to the principles of sincerity, real results, amity and good faith under China's Africa policy as put forth by Chinese President Xi Jinping.
Successive leaders of both countries have provided strategic guidance for developing bilateral relations through frequent exchanges of visits and meetings on international occasions. In 2018, President Xi Jinping and former Namibian President Hage Geingob established the China-Namibia comprehensive strategic partnership of cooperation, and the two countries signed a Memorandum of Understanding on Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) Cooperation, which opened a new chapter in China-Namibia relations.
There are many wonderful stories of mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries since China has long been Namibia's second-largest trading partner and a key source of foreign investment. Bilateral trade exceeded 1.3 billion U.S. dollars last year, and China now accounts for about 30 percent of the total foreign direct investment in Namibia.
Husab Uranium Project, China's largest single investment in Africa, and the Rossing Uranium Mine, two flagship mining projects, have contributed to about 7 percent of Namibia's GDP and created 6,000 high-paying jobs for the local communities. In the meantime, they have helped ensure a stable uranium supply for China's nuclear power industry.
As the largest developing country in the world, China has always been keen to assist Namibia in its social and economic development, which has brought tangible benefits to the Namibian people.
The various grant projects by the Chinese government have contributed to Namibia's efforts to combat drought and upgrade infrastructure, including in education, health care, agriculture, public transportation, youth training, scientific research and government buildings.
Every year, dozens of Namibian students get Chinese Government scholarships to study in China, and more than 300 Namibians head to China to undertake various training programs.
China was the first country to provide vaccine assistance to Namibia during the COVID-19 pandemic. Since 1996, China has sent 15 medical teams to Namibia, providing traditional Chinese medicine therapies to approximately 10,000 Namibians each year.
Namibian youth have displayed a strong interest in studying the Chinese language, with around 7,000 students attending Chinese language courses at the University of Namibia's Confucius Institute -- and demand is growing.
When the Chinese people celebrate the remarkable achievements of the Shenzhou spaceships, they will never forget the contribution of the China Telemetry, Tracking, and Command Station in Namibia. This station was the first one built by China in the Southern Hemisphere with Namibia's support.
While the historical and current state of China-Namibia relations is built on deep traditional friendship, shared interests and significant accomplishments, the future fills us with enthusiasm due to the limitless potential for development.
Despite a small population of 3 million, Namibia ranks as the 34th largest country in the world in terms of land size. It's a country with long-term political stability, a sound legal system and a strong determination for development. In addition to the endowment of rich mineral resources, Namibia is on the way to becoming the fourth-largest oil producer in Africa, thanks to the intensified exploratory efforts in recent years.
As China advances its path to modernization, Namibia is ready to accelerate its industrialization. The two countries will attach greater importance to the strategic alignment of the China-proposed BRI and the Global Development Initiative with the Namibia Vision 2030 and the Harambee Prosperity Plan, creating enormous opportunities for deepening bilateral practical cooperation.
The upcoming FOCAC Summit will map out the grand blueprint for the future development of China-Africa relations, with China-Namibia ties playing a crucial role. As Namibia's President Nangolo Mbumba travels to China for the FOCAC Summit and meets with his Chinese counterpart, this year marks another milestone in the relationship.
At this historic juncture, we should prepare for even greater development of China-Namibia relations in the coming years. It will be a future with increased Chinese investment in Namibia's economic development, including energy, mineral cooperation, agriculture and other sectors. Additionally, we anticipate enhanced bilateral trade and a rise in Chinese tourists visiting this beautiful "land of the brave."
By working together, China and Namibia will usher in a new period of ties and make more outstanding contributions to building a High-Level China-Africa Community with a Shared Future.
Editor's note: Zhao Weiping is the Chinese Ambassador to Namibia.
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the positions of Xinhua News Agency.