Students look at artworks during the Dragon Design Exhibition held at Kenyatta University in Nairobi, Kenya, Feb. 15, 2024. The day-long event showcasing different aspects of the Chinese dragon was held Thursday at Kenyatta University, Kenya's second oldest public university. (Xinhua/Han Xu)
NAIROBI, Feb. 15 (Xinhua) -- An artistic exhibition aimed at showcasing different aspects of the Chinese dragon was held Thursday at Kenyatta University, Kenya's second oldest public university.
The day-long event, titled the Dragon Design Exhibition, featured more than 40 artworks and was organized by Kenyatta University's Confucius Institute in partnership with the Shandong Institute of Arts and Crafts. Gracing the exhibition of murals, paintings and drawings, which presented various aspects of the Chinese dragon, were faculty members, students and members of the public.
Zhou Xiaodong, the Chinese director of Kenyatta University's Confucius Institute, said the exhibition, which took place against the backdrop of the Spring Festival, would help showcase the richness of Chinese culture to the local people.
He said that 2024 is the Year of the Dragon, or the Year of the Loong, which, according to Chinese folklore, symbolizes luck, prosperity and greatness, noting that the exhibition is timely to help boost cross-cultural understanding.
"We arranged this exhibition with the Shandong University of Design and Art. We invited the best designers in China to create these works," Zhou said. "From this exhibition, we aim to deepen ties to the culture of Chinese Loong for Kenyans. Our students have learned about this culture in the classroom, but they have never seen the actual works."
Benson Kamau, a Chinese language teacher at Kenyatta University Confucius Institute, said the dragon exhibition provided an opportunity for local students to learn about Chinese culture.
During the exhibition, tutors looked forward to explaining different aspects of Chinese culture to students and how they can harmoniously integrate with the Chinese people, Kamau said.
"China has a rich culture spanning about 5,000 years. This is an opportunity to learn their (its) culture and how we can integrate with it," Kamau said, adding that he has gained a better understanding of the Chinese dragon thanks to the exhibition. ■
This photo shows artworks on display during the Dragon Design Exhibition held at Kenyatta University in Nairobi, Kenya, Feb. 15, 2024. The day-long event showcasing different aspects of the Chinese dragon was held Thursday at Kenyatta University, Kenya's second oldest public university. (Xinhua/Han Xu)
This photo shows artworks on display during the Dragon Design Exhibition held at Kenyatta University in Nairobi, Kenya, Feb. 15, 2024. The day-long event showcasing different aspects of the Chinese dragon was held Thursday at Kenyatta University, Kenya's second oldest public university. (Xinhua/Han Xu)
Students look at artworks during the Dragon Design Exhibition held at Kenyatta University in Nairobi, Kenya, Feb. 15, 2024. The day-long event showcasing different aspects of the Chinese dragon was held Thursday at Kenyatta University, Kenya's second oldest public university. (Xinhua/Han Xu)