Chen Li (L), vice principal of Hunan Mechanical and Electrical Polytechnic (HMEP) hands over a plaque to Ayub Sooma (C), chairperson of Luyanzi Institute of Technology (LIT), under the witness of the charge d'affaires of the Chinese Embassy in Uganda Fan Xuecheng, during a memorandum of understanding (MoU) signing ceremony at LIT campus in Kampala, Uganda, June 8, 2024. Uganda's LIT, a vocational school in Kampala, has signed a MoU with HMEP in China to enhance training and employment opportunities for its students. (Photo by Nicholas Kajoba/Xinhua)
KAMPALA, June 8 (Xinhua) -- Uganda's Luyanzi Institute of Technology (LIT), a vocational school in Kampala, has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Hunan Mechanical and Electrical Polytechnic (HMEP) in China to enhance training and employment opportunities for its students.
Ayub Sooma, chairperson of LIT, signed the MoU at LIT with Chen Li, vice principal of HMEP, on Saturday.
The MoU outlines cooperation in various areas, including training programs for teachers and students, dual diploma programs, information exchange, materials and lectures, and joint research.
Sooma said that the partnership will enable more students to enroll in mechanical and polytechnic courses. "With this partnership, we will have more students enrolling and acquiring practical skills that will help them secure jobs immediately after graduation," he said.
Chen said that the partnership will allow Ugandan students to graduate with diplomas in various mechanical and polytechnic fields. "Our college is rated by China's Ministry of Education as an excellent institution for talent training and a model college for employment and entrepreneurship in Hunan province," he said.
George Mutekanga, assistant commissioner in charge of private schools and institutions at Uganda's Ministry of Education and Sports, praised the partnership, saying that more Ugandans will gain practical skills from Chinese trainers.
Fan Xuecheng, charge d'affaires of the Chinese Embassy in Uganda, said that the MoU will facilitate the exchange of education programs and promote cultural ties between China and Uganda. "China and Uganda have long had a strong relationship in economy, culture, and education. More Chinese institutions are now collaborating with Ugandan educational institutions to offer practical training and scholarships," he said. ■