The Chinese contingent to the United Nations Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) holds an asset transfer ceremony on the outskirts of Bukavu, capital of the DRC's eastern South Kivu province, April 29, 2024. (MONUSCO/Handout via Xinhua)
BUKAVU, DR Congo, April 30 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese contingent to the United Nations Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) on Monday donated engineering tools and machines as well as medical equipment to the government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
An asset transfer ceremony was held on the outskirts of Bukavu, capital of the DRC's eastern South Kivu province.
Since 2003, the Chinese contingent's engineering company has supported the strengthening of the province's road infrastructure. The donation is expected to help the local government consolidate peace and social development.
In a written message, the head of MONUSCO, Bintou Keita, praised the Chinese peacekeepers' dedication and professionalism, and the generosity of the Chinese side.
"Over the years, we have seen the crucial importance of infrastructure in maintaining and consolidating peace and security. This asset transfer demonstrates the commitment of China to supporting peace consolidation and development efforts in the DRC," she said. "I reiterate my gratitude to the Chinese peacekeepers for their dedication and professionalism over the two decades of their deployment in South Kivu."
For his part, Chinese Ambassador to the DRC Zhao Bin, said in a written message that China, as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, supports the UN in its role in maintaining peace and stability in Africa, and in its cooperation with the African Union and African sub-regional organizations.
China has long supported African countries in strengthening their own security capabilities and in resolving African problems in the African way, Zhao said.
The asset transfer came about two weeks after MONUSCO and the DRC authorities paid tribute to the Chinese peacekeepers during a UN medal award ceremony, in the context of MONUSCO's disengagement from South Kivu, initiated in January 2024.
According to a plan established by the DRC and the UN, MONUSCO's disengagement unfolds in three phases, starting with a complete withdrawal of the mission's military and police components from the eastern province of South Kivu by April 30.
The second and third phases of this withdrawal involve a withdrawal from North Kivu and Ituri, and MONUSCO will "definitely leave the DRC no later than the end of 2024," according to a statement released jointly by the DRC government and MONUSCO in January 2024. ■