by Mahmoud Fouly, Yao Bing
CAIRO, Sept. 20 (Xinhua) -- The Beijing Culture Forum is a new global platform for cultural exchange and cooperation between different countries, said Hassan Ragab, professor of Chinese studies and director of the Confucius Institute of Egypt's Suez Canal University.
Hassan made the remarks in a recent interview with Xinhua ahead of flying to Beijing to attend the global cultural event scheduled for Sept. 19 to 21 in the Chinese capital.
"It will be an important opportunity for intellectuals from all countries of the world to meet and discuss how to deal with cultural issues that concern the whole world," he said.
Over 800 Chinese and foreign participants, including more than 240 international guests from over 70 countries and regions, are attending the ongoing forum and holding in-depth discussions on a wide range of topics, including mutual learning between civilizations, cultural heritage protection and inheritance, and new cultural business forms and technology integration.
"I believe that in light of the current globalization, the Beijing Culture Forum is a new Chinese and global platform for dialogue and visions between different cultures," Ragab said.
With a permanent theme of "Inheritance, Creativity, Mutual Learning," the 2024 Beijing Culture Forum is held under the specific theme of "Enhance Culture Exchanges for Common Progress."
The Egyptian professor said he expects the seminars to be held during the forum to "enrich cultural life, different cultures, and different civilizations."
"The world has multiple cultures, and therefore the annual meeting of the Beijing Culture Forum is a new opportunity to exchange dialogue and visions about the future of these cultures," he said.
The veteran professor of Chinese language recalled his interest in Chinese culture since he was young, which was why he chose to study Chinese more than four decades ago.
"My journey with Chinese culture is a long journey spanning more than 40 years, as I loved Chinese history since I was young, and when I joined Ain Shams University in 1980, I loved to activate this love by studying the Chinese language," he said.
As one of the first generation of Chinese language students in Egypt, Ragab said that he witnessed the beginning of China's reform and opening-up.
The Chinese language allowed Ragab to connect more closely with the Chinese people and develop a profound admiration for their culture, making him committed to spreading the Chinese language and culture in Egypt.
The professor established Chinese language departments at Minya University in 2006, Aswan University in 2014, and the British University in Egypt in 2019.
"Then my management of the Confucius Institute provided me with a great opportunity to contribute to developing the ties of friendship and love between Egypt and China," he said.
This year's Beijing Culture Forum will have a special focus on the recent successful addition of the Beijing Central Axis to the World Heritage List of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).
As the cultural and political capital of China, Beijing boasts key cultural heritage landmarks, such as the Forbidden City and the Great Wall of China, among others, which Ragab described as reflections of the depth of Chinese civilization.
He referred to the Chinese culture as "a culture of diversity" as it is home to 56 ethnic groups. "Therefore, this cultural diversity enriches cultural life in China and provides a new vessel for human civilization."
He added that different cultures should engage in dialogue rather than conflict, stressing that the Beijing Culture Forum provides a great opportunity for multicultural dialogue.
"Cultural exchange between China and the world plays a vital role in promoting the progress and coexistence of humanity," the Egyptian professor told Xinhua. ■