Moldovan Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mihai Popsoi speaks during an exclusive interview with Xinhua in Bucharest, Romania, May 23, 2024. (Photo by Cristian Cristel/Xinhua)
BUCHAREST, June 8 (Xinhua) -- Moldova is keen to strengthen bilateral cooperation with China for the mutual benefit of both countries, Moldovan Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mihai Popsoi said in a recent exclusive interview with Xinhua.
"The Republic of Moldova has been consistent in its recognition of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of China," Popsoi told Xinhua during his visit to Romania, reiterating Moldova's consistent stance on the Taiwan question. He also expressed appreciation for China's recognition of Moldova's sovereignty.
Popsoi said that Moldova-China relations are based on mutual respect and international law. He praised the long-standing positive dynamics in bilateral relations and expressed the desire to enhance cooperation, especially in the economic and cultural fields.
Decent progress has been made in economic and trade relations between Moldova and China, said Popsoi, noting that Moldovan exports to China have increased in recent years. He expects bilateral economic cooperation to further boost trade, especially in the export of Moldovan agricultural products and wine to China.
China is one of the most important importers of Moldovan wine, importing 6 to 8 million bottles per year, Popsoi said.
The deputy prime minister and foreign minister also welcomed Chinese investment in Moldova, particularly in energy, transport and infrastructure, with a view to making Moldova a regional logistics hub and building a resilient economic system. "We look forward to seeing how ... we can benefit to reduce our carbon footprint and have a more resilient economic system, especially when it comes to energy resilience," he said.
"China is a huge market," said Popsoi. "For Moldova, strong cooperation with one of its regions, or even one of its big cities, means an important step forward."
He praised cultural interactions between China and Moldova and expressed hope for more people-to-people exchanges, looking forward to more cultural activities in both countries.
Finally, he expressed eagerness to expand tourism and youth exchanges, and invite more Chinese visitors to experience Moldova's unique gastronomy, culture, and wine. ■
Moldovan Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mihai Popsoi speaks during an exclusive interview with Xinhua in Bucharest, Romania, May 23, 2024. (Photo by Cristian Cristel/Xinhua)