The launch ceremony of Chinese Enterprises Volunteer Project in Ethiopia is held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, May 10, 2024. A special ceremony was held on Friday in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, to mark the fifth anniversary of the establishment of China Foundation for Rural Development (CFRD) Ethiopia Office and the launch of the Chinese Enterprises Volunteer Project with attendees of senior Ethiopian government officials, Chinese diplomats and representatives of Chinese enterprises. (Xinhua/Michael Tewelde)
ADDIS ABABA, May 11 (Xinhua) -- China Foundation for Rural Development (CFRD) has won acclaim for intensifying humanitarian assistance in Ethiopia as it marked its five years of operation in the east African country.
A special ceremony was held on Friday in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, to mark the fifth anniversary of the establishment of CFRD Ethiopia Office and the launch of the Chinese Enterprises Volunteer Project with attendees of senior Ethiopian government officials, Chinese diplomats and representatives of Chinese enterprises.
Speaking on the occasion, Minister of Women and Social Affairs Ergogie Tesfaye said with its school feeding, water and sanitation, poverty alleviation and women's economic empowerment programs, CFRD has extended a helping hand to 320,000 people in Ethiopia.
"Today I am filled with joy to witness the accomplishment of the China Foundation for Rural Development in Ethiopia whose dedication and contributions are commendable in bringing significant change on the lives of people in Ethiopia," Tesfaye said.
With its "Smiling Children Program", CFRD has been working jointly with the Ethiopian government and local NGOs to meet its target of "zero hunger" scheme in Ethiopia, mainly through school feeding and poverty alleviation programs.
"It is really pleasing to see smiles on the faces of children who benefited from CFRD's project. It is all about humanity and this project shows that humanity does not have borders," she said.
Noting that the CFRD's humanitarian services have expanded to nearly all regions of Ethiopia, Tesfaye said China and Ethiopia are enjoying "all-weather" strategic partnership with deepening political trust and fruitful economic collaborations.
Highlighting that CFRD has done a great job in strengthening relations between the peoples of China and Ethiopia, Yang Yihang, minister counselor at the Chinese Embassy in Ethiopia, said the CFRD has been addressing the diverse needs of poor communities in Ethiopia over the past five years.
"CFRD has been undertaking a lot of charitable projects in Ethiopia through the school feeding program, panda pack project and solar lamp project among others," Yang said.
According to information obtained at the event, CFRD has invested over 10.5 million U.S. dollars to undertake its humanitarian services in Ethiopia.
Currently, CFRD is undertaking school feeding and food items distribution program in selected primary schools, aiming at meeting nutritional needs of disadvantaged school children and addressing delayed growth problems in the east African country.
The foundation also launched a water, sanitation and hygiene project as part of its effort of helping the east African country meet the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
CFRD also started the pilot panda light project involving provision of solar powered lamps to primary school students learning in off-grid areas of Ethiopia. So far, the foundation has distributed 9,000 solar lamps to primary school students in the Oromia region of the country. ■
Ethiopian Minister of Women and Social Affairs Ergogie Tesfaye speaks at a ceremony in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, May 10, 2024. A special ceremony was held on Friday in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, to mark the fifth anniversary of the establishment of China Foundation for Rural Development (CFRD) Ethiopia Office and the launch of the Chinese Enterprises Volunteer Project with attendees of senior Ethiopian government officials, Chinese diplomats and representatives of Chinese enterprises. (Xinhua/Michael Tewelde)