KIGALI, Sept. 13 (Xinhua) -- Rwanda views China as an important and reliable partner that has significantly contributed to the country's socioeconomic development, a senior official said Thursday.
"This collaboration has been particularly impactful in priority sectors such as infrastructure, health, energy and education aligning with our shared vision of mutual growth and prosperity," said Olivier Nduhungirehe, minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation, at an event marking the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in Kigali, Rwanda's capital.
He described the anniversary as a milestone in China's history and an important occasion for reflecting on the remarkable journey and achievements of the Chinese people.
"Since 1971, Rwanda and China have built a robust relationship based on mutual respect and common will for development. In recent years, Rwanda and China made great progress in growing bilateral relations, characterized by win-win partnerships and mutual understanding on political matters," Nduhungirehe said.
He reaffirmed Rwanda's commitment to the one-China principle and support for China's reunification efforts. He also expressed gratitude for China's steadfast support in helping Rwanda safeguard national unity and combat genocide denial and hate speech.
"China stands as one of Rwanda's leading trading partners with investments exceeding 1.2 billion U.S. dollars. We greatly value and recognize China's significant contributions across key sectors, including manufacturing and construction which have played a vital role in supporting Rwanda's economic growth and development," he said.
Nduhungirehe congratulated China on the successful hosting of the Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) earlier this month.
Chinese Ambassador to Rwanda Wang Xuekun said over the past 75 years, under the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China, the country has made remarkable development strides, growing from a society struggling with basic needs to a moderately prosperous nation in all aspects.
This year marks a "big year" for China-Rwanda relations as the two nations elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership after Rwandan President Paul Kagame attended the 2024 FOCAC Summit in Beijing, Wang said.
"Both China and Rwanda regard each other as long-term, trustworthy and reliable friends and partners," he said.
China and Rwanda's economic and trade cooperation has advanced steadily in recent years, with bilateral trade reaching 550 million U.S. dollars in 2023, according to embassy data. Last year, China's imports from Rwanda surged 86.2 percent year on year.
Wang noted that China will continue to strengthen friendly cooperation with other countries based on mutual benefit and win-win results.
"We will intensify our efforts in the Belt and Road Initiative, as well as in promoting the Global Development Initiative, Global Security Initiative and Global Civilization Initiative," he said, adding that China remains dedicated to world peace, development and building a community with a shared future for humanity. ■