This screenshot shows a scene of the virtual meeting during the Hongting Forum webinar held in Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire, Aug. 23, 2024. (Xinhua)
ABIDJAN, Aug. 24 (Xinhua) -- African journalists expressed their willingness for mutually beneficial cooperation with Chinese media during the Hongting Forum webinar held on Friday in Abidjan, the economic capital of Cote d'Ivoire.
During the virtual meeting, which attracted about 50 participants from more than 10 French-speaking countries in Central and West Africa, participants praised the vitality of media cooperation between Africa and China.
"The media is a witness to Sino-African friendship," said Gerard Ayiagnigni Njoya, editor-in-chief of Actu Chine Cameroon.
"It is clear that in my country, the media, through its functions, has boosted diplomatic and economic relations between China and Togo," said Yibokou-Mensah Akossiwa, a journalist with the Savoir News Agency in Togo.
Emmanuel Dulac Houssou, a Beninese journalist and trainer at Afrique Express, highlighted the positive communication surrounding the increase of Chinese investment in Benin, the construction of infrastructure by Chinese companies, the development of e-commerce, and the promotion of culture and language through the Confucius Institute.
"There are significant opportunities as well as good prospects in working with the media," he said, advocating for building the capacity of media professionals.
Auguste Mederic Beugre, editor-in-chief of sino-afrique.mag and president of the Consortium of African Professional Journalists for Strengthening Sino-African Cooperation, emphasized the role played by Ivorian journalists, who, he said, have showcased healthcare, cultural, road, and sports infrastructures built or financed by China.
Beugre advocated the establishment of a permanent framework for cooperation between Chinese and Ivorian journalists, and called on the international media to report more objectively on Africa and for African reporting to be based on Africans for Africa.
Previously, meetings were held on July 31 in Nairobi, Kenya, and Aug. 1 in Johannesburg, South Africa, as part of the Hongting Forum organized by Xinhua News Agency Africa Regional Bureau. ■