A Chinese doctor shows visitors a variety of traditional Chinese medicine at the Zimbabwe-China Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) and Acupuncture Center in Harare, Zimbabwe, on Dec. 2, 2024. (Xinhua/Tafara Mugwara)
HARARE, Dec. 3 (Xinhua) -- Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) is gaining popularity in Zimbabwe following the opening of a TCM exhibition room at the Zimbabwe-China TCM and Acupuncture Center, located at the Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals in the country's capital of Harare.
The exhibition room, which opened in June, aims to introduce the TCM culture and therapy to the public.
"TCM is not just acupuncture. It has a lot of other methods, other therapies, and other theories," said Hu Sha, director of the center.
In addition to the well-known acupuncture therapy that involves inserting thin needles into targeted areas of the body, the exhibition room showcases various aspects of TCM, such as samples of Chinese herbs, cupping tools, massage therapy tools, methods of preparing Chinese herbs, and ancient books on TCM, among others.
"I hope this will be a good platform and window for local people to learn about TCM and promote cooperation between TCM and Zimbabwean local traditional medicine," Hu said.
The number of patients receiving free treatment at the TCM and Acupuncture Center has increased significantly since the center opened its doors to the public in 2020.
"We treat between 30 and 60 people every working day, and our appointments have been scheduled until next February. I am happy that people can trust and believe in TCM, and I am also glad that TCM can help them treat diseases and relieve pain," she said.
Patients who spoke to Xinhua said the center has provided much-needed relief.
"Every time I come here, I feel calm; it's like my body is rejuvenated, and I'm stronger than before," said Harare resident Farai Mugwisi, who decided to try acupuncture after experiencing headaches.
"I remembered that I had a similar problem when I was in China, and I went to a traditional medical center, so I searched on Facebook and found this place. When I came here, my left eye was closed, but after the acupuncture, my eye was wide open, and I slept well for the first time," she said.
She then introduced her mother to acupuncture. "My mother is a stroke patient, so I brought her in. She was doing physical therapy somewhere, and when she came back for a session, her therapist said, 'You've improved a lot! What happened?'"
Luisa Maidza, another beneficiary of TCM, said the ancient technique helped her relieve back pain that had plagued her for more than a decade.
"It's a wonderful thing to receive such life-changing treatment without cost," she, 58, said.
To help meet the demand for TCM in Zimbabwe, a group of 10 locals enrolled and graduated from a TCM personnel training course held at the center in 2022.
Munashe Mboneka, an assistant at the center, decided to enroll in the training course after realizing the benefits and growing demand for TCM in the southern African country.
"I am proud to say that our TCM clinic is becoming more and more popular. People are recognizing the benefits and natural healing methods of TCM, and our clinic's approach resonates with those seeking effective, long-term health solutions. This growing popularity motivates us to continue providing the best possible care to our community," said Mboneka. ■
A Chinese doctor treats a patient with acupuncture at the Zimbabwe-China Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) and Acupuncture Center in Harare, Zimbabwe, on Dec. 2, 2024. (Xinhua/Tafara Mugwara)