Kenyan President William Ruto (Front) operates a bulldozer during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a geothermal power plant in Nakuru county, Kenya, on Oct. 24, 2024. Kenya's quest for universal access to green energy received a boost Thursday during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a 35-megawatt (MW) geothermal power plant in Nakuru County, located about 200 km to the northwest of Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. (Xinhua/Han Xu)
NAIROBI, Oct. 24 (Xinhua) -- Kenya's quest for universal access to green energy received a boost Thursday during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a 35-megawatt (MW) geothermal power plant in Nakuru County, located about 200 km to the northwest of Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.
To be implemented within 17 months at about 90 million U.S. dollars, the 35-MW Orpower 22 Geothermal Power Plant will accelerate Kenya's green energy switch, boost climate resilience and stimulate economic growth, according to senior officials.
Kenyan President William Ruto presided over the groundbreaking ceremony for the project, which will be carried out by Kaishan Group Co. Ltd, a global company headquartered in Shanghai, China, through a public-private partnership model.
Ruto said construction of the geothermal power plant signals Kenya's commitment to achieving the historic goal of a national electricity power grid that is 100 percent green by 2030 and highlights its commitment to unlocking Kenya's vast geothermal potential to drive economic growth.
He noted that Kenya has created an enabling environment to attract private sector investments in renewable energy sources such as solar, wind and geothermal in line with its green industrial growth agenda.
Currently, Kenya has only tapped 950 MW out of the country's 10,000 MW geothermal potential, Ruto revealed, stressing that investors like the Kaishan Group will be pivotal in the sustainable exploitation of this clean source of energy.
According to Ruto, Kenya is the sixth largest geothermal power producer in the world, with geothermal energy accounting for over 50 percent of the national power mix.
He said that the completion of the 35-MW Orpower 22 Geothermal Power Plant will elevate Kenya's global ranking to fifth place, ensuring that its economic development is green and inclusive.
Kenya is committed to decarbonizing the national grid and accelerating progress toward achieving net-zero targets, guided by progressive regulatory and policy tools alongside targeted investments, Ruto said.
Yan Tang, general manager of the Kaishan Group, said that through the partnership with the Kenyan government and local communities, the company hopes to implement geothermal power and green hydrogen projects, fostering zero-carbon industrialization in Kenya.
"Through all these projects, we are not only pursuing green and renewable energies such as green electricity, green hydrogen and green ammonia, but also to create more jobs, resulting in more economic impact to local communities," Yan said.
Still in Nakuru County, the 35-MW Sosian Menengai Geothermal Power Plant constructed by the Kaishan Group has been supplying electricity to the national grid since June 2023, hastening Kenya's green energy switch.
Opiyo Wandayi, cabinet secretary in the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum, said that through the partnership with the Chinese firm, Kenya hoped to upscale access to renewable energy and meet its carbon emission reduction goals outlined in global treaties. ■
Kenyan President William Ruto (2nd R) attends a groundbreaking ceremony in Nakuru County, Kenya, Oct. 24, 2024.
Kenya's quest for universal access to green energy received a boost Thursday during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a 35-megawatt (MW) geothermal power plant in Nakuru County, located about 200 km to the northwest of Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.
To be implemented within 17 months at about 90 million U.S. dollars, the 35-MW Orpower 22 Geothermal Power Plant will accelerate Kenya's green energy switch, boost climate resilience and stimulate economic growth, according to senior officials. (Xinhua/Han Xu)
Opiyo Wandayi, cabinet secretary in the Kenya's Ministry of Energy and Petroleum, speaks during a groundbreaking ceremony in Nakuru County, Kenya, Oct. 24, 2024.
Kenya's quest for universal access to green energy received a boost Thursday during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a 35-megawatt (MW) geothermal power plant in Nakuru County, located about 200 km to the northwest of Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.
To be implemented within 17 months at about 90 million U.S. dollars, the 35-MW Orpower 22 Geothermal Power Plant will accelerate Kenya's green energy switch, boost climate resilience and stimulate economic growth, according to senior officials. (Xinhua/Han Xu)
Yan Tang, general manager of the Kaishan Group, speaks during a groundbreaking ceremony in Nakuru County, Kenya, Oct. 24, 2024.
Kenya's quest for universal access to green energy received a boost Thursday during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a 35-megawatt (MW) geothermal power plant in Nakuru County, located about 200 km to the northwest of Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.
To be implemented within 17 months at about 90 million U.S. dollars, the 35-MW Orpower 22 Geothermal Power Plant will accelerate Kenya's green energy switch, boost climate resilience and stimulate economic growth, according to senior officials. (Xinhua/Han Xu)
Kenyan President William Ruto speaks during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a geothermal power plant in Nakuru county, Kenya, on Oct. 24, 2024. Kenya's quest for universal access to green energy received a boost Thursday during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a 35-megawatt (MW) geothermal power plant in Nakuru County, located about 200 km to the northwest of Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. (Xinhua/Han Xu)
Kenyan President William Ruto speaks during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a geothermal power plant in Nakuru county, Kenya, on Oct. 24, 2024. Kenya's quest for universal access to green energy received a boost Thursday during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a 35-megawatt (MW) geothermal power plant in Nakuru County, located about 200 km to the northwest of Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. (Xinhua/Han Xu)
Kenyan President William Ruto (2nd R) unveils a plate during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a geothermal power plant in Nakuru county, Kenya, on Oct. 24, 2024. Kenya's quest for universal access to green energy received a boost Thursday during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a 35-megawatt (MW) geothermal power plant in Nakuru County, located about 200 km to the northwest of Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. (Xinhua/Han Xu)