Namibia's new President Nangolo Mbumba (1st R) meets with Chinese President Xi Jinping's special envoy and Vice Chairperson of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference Jiang Zuojun (2nd R) at the Presidential Palace in Windhoek, the capital of Namibia, on Feb. 25, 2024. Jiang attended the state funeral of the late Namibian President Hage Geingob, held in Windhoek, the capital of Namibia, from Saturday to Sunday, and delivered a speech at the mourning event. (Xinhua/Chen Cheng)
WINDHOEK, Feb. 26 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping's Special Envoy and Vice Chairperson of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference Jiang Zuojun attended the state funeral of the late Namibian President Hage Geingob, held in Windhoek, the capital of Namibia, from Saturday to Sunday, and delivered a speech at the mourning event.
Namibia's new President Nangolo Mbumba met with Jiang at the Presidential Palace Sunday afternoon. During the meeting, Jiang conveyed cordial greetings and best wishes from President Xi to President Mbumba, expressing deep condolences over the death of President Geingob and extending sincere sympathy to the government and people of Namibia.
China and Namibia enjoy profound traditional friendship and bilateral cooperation in various fields has maintained a sound momentum of development in recent years, said the Chinese special envoy.
China attaches great importance to its relations with Namibia and is willing to work with the new government of Namibia to deepen political mutual trust and friendly cooperation and push forward the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership between the two countries, Jiang noted.
Mbumba thanked President Xi for appointing a special envoy to offer condolences and asked Jiang to convey sincere greetings to President Xi.
He stressed that Namibia is willing to make concerted efforts with China to carry forward bilateral friendship and strengthen cooperation in trade, investment, agriculture, science and technology for the benefit of both countries and their peoples. ■
Chinese President Xi Jinping's special envoy and Vice Chairperson of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference Jiang Zuojun attends the state funeral of the late Namibian President Hage Geingob and delivers a speech at the mourning event in Windhoek, the capital of Namibia, on Feb. 24, 2024. Namibia's new President Nangolo Mbumba met with Jiang at the Presidential Palace Sunday afternoon. (Xinhua/Chen Cheng)